"If there is no energy, there is no development - and if there is no development, there are no jobs," German Development Minister Gerd M ller told a meeting of the German Cooperative and Raffeisen Confederation (DGRV) this week. But in sub-Saharan Africa, more than two-thirds of the population has no access to electricity, according to data from the World Bank. Now, Germany is aiming to change that with an initiative set to boost citizen-led renewable energy projects across the continent.The initiative is part of the German government's "Marshall Plan" for Africa - a new cooperation and development strategy unveiled earlier this year.As Africa's population grows, and infrastructure and technology develop, the continent's demand for energy is rapidly increasing. By 2040, Africa is set to need 80 percent more energy than the current demand, according to German government data.But Minister M ller expressed confidence for the future. "Africa can be the first continent to supply itself fully with renewable energy," he said.Partnerships with German cooperatives The aim is to boost development by increasing access to energy. If people in remote villages could produce their own electricity, they would be able to, for example, keep their food cool. Farmers could use solar-powered pumps to bring water to their fields, and handicraft businesses would boost their production.Communities are key to implementing the project - and Germany's numerous energy cooperatives are set to serve as a model. Germany is home to more than 850 energy cooperatives, with more than 180,000 members. Community energy projects have a right to sell their electricity directly to third parties.The German Development Ministry is keen to use this expertise to help create similar groups in Africa. Over the next five years, the plan is to set up 100 partnerships in which German cooperatives can share their knowledge and experience with African community groups in eight countries across the continent.More than know-how Eckhard Ott, CEO of the DGRV, welcomed the concept. "Energy cooperatives support local economies and boost acceptance for renewable energies," he said. "Africa should also take advantage of this."However, he pointed out that although German energy cooperatives could help provide African partners with essential know-how, a good legal framework and affordable technology are also key to the success of such projects.Jesse Pielke, head of operations at German energy startup Africa GreenTec, agreed that the partnerships are a "great idea."The three-year-old startup has built solar power plants set to provide electricity to several villages in Mali.But Pielke also emphasized the importance of understanding the differences between working in Germany and African countries."We believe that the large-scale approach of just implementing a German solution into the African continent is not going to work - simply because you don't have the same basic conditions," he told DW.Germany has a functioning energy market, people with relatively high income, people with the know-how to implement solar energy and other renewable energy sources into their every day lives. "In many cases, you will have a hard time finding that in Africa," he pointed out.Different approaches, same goal The German government has pledged to improve training opportunities for young people to learn the skills needed to work on renewable energy projects. It has also promised to support partner countries and groups in meeting the political and legal conditions needed to develop a decentralized energy supply.As well as being able to attract investment, working in the renewable energy sector in Africa demands intimate knowledge of local cultures, said Pielke. "Communication is very important," he told DW. "You need to learn about the local way to do business and how to reach people."But he doesn't think the German government's plan to set up cooperatives will create competition for energy startups like Africa GreenTec."It's a different approach," he told DW. "As a social business, we don't see other people or institutions as competitors, but more as partners with the same idea and the same goal - electrifying people in Africa."Our physiological needs can be used for much more than filling our bladders and our toilets. Researchers are looking into how to transform urine and other human excrement - let's spare the details - into energy. For instance at refugee camps, this could provide lighting while solving sanitation problems. Despite the negative associations, our corporal waste may one day be our best ally.It's an incipient idea that needs intense further research - but farming microalgae could be a solution to producing biofuel efficiently and sustainably. Large microalgae farms would transform sunlight and carbon dioxide into bio-ethanol. But even with optimal results, energy production would remain very low.Moya is a lightweight, flexible sheet that can harvest low-grade wind energy in a variety of locations - that's how its inventor, South African Charlotte Slingsby, describes it. This curtain can be installed into existing infrastructure without a need for expensive facilities or land-clearing. And it doesn't harm birds or bats, like large wind turbines can.Wood remains the main energy source in many parts of the world - and this is leading to deforestation. Coconut shells and husks may be a sustainable alternative in countries like Kenya or Cambodia. Compared to traditional wood charcoal, coconut charcoal burns longer, is cheaper and avoids felling trees. It also eases management of coconut waste - a real problem in some regions.Fish factories create mountains of waste every day - which could produce energy. The high fat content in the tons of fish innards, along with scales and bones not suitable for the food market, can be used to produce biodiesel. Countries such as Honduras, Brazil and Vietnam have been already experimenting with this new energy source for years - but financial issues may hinder success.The wind tree is a French innovation imitating nature to create energy. Jerome Michaud-Lariviere, the brain behind this concept, was inspired while observing leaves on trees fluttering in the wind. The tree-like structure has 72 mini-turbines instead of leaves, and can produce enough electricity to power 15 streetlights, charge an electric car or even power a small family home.Imagine tapping the energy of every step you take - this is the concept behind smart surfaces located under dance floors, football pitches, and metro stations, among other venues around the globe. The energy harvested can power low-voltage lighting or charge electronic devices in the immediate vicinity. So now there's a new excuse to keep your body moving!This delicious appetizer is also the source of olive oil that is a basic part of cuisine in Mediterranean countries. But once the olive has been pressed for oil, the leftovers can have a further use: biofuel. Production of olive oil creates four times its weight in waste. The Phenolive project turns that waste into electricity and heat, in doing so completing the product lifecycle.Power outages are still a daily reality in many areas of the developing world. A lack of resources has pushed people to find cost-effective alternatives - and "trash" from crops stands out as a good option. Incinerating the stems and leaves from mustard plants, for instance, can provide electricity to thousands of rural homes. The ash can then be placed back in the fields as fertilizer.Sun not only makes shimmering mirages on roads - it also produces energy. The Netherlands already has a 70-meter solar bike path, and France is now following in the same track. The country plans to install 1,000 kilometers of specially designed photovoltaic solar paneling on its roads over the next five years, with the aim of expanding its renewable energy capacity. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz