Christian Democratic Union (CDU) / Christian Social Union (CSU)Color: BlackChairperson: Angela MerkelMembership: 430,000Voters: Over 60s, churchgoers, living in rural areas - especially in southern Germany - still represent the hardcore of CDU and of CSU voters. The CDU has also done well among small business owners and people with lower or medium education standards.2013 Bundestag election result: 41.5 percent (311/630 seats)History: The CDU was founded in West Germany in 1950 in the aftermath of World War II as a gathering pool for all of Germany's Christian conservative voters. It became the most dominant political force in post-war West Germany and then unified Germany, leading the government for 47 of those 67 years, alongside its Bavaria sister-party, the Christian Social Union (CSU).CDU Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, who governed from 1949 to 1963, is the closest that the Federal Republic has to a founding father. It was Adenauer and his economy minister (and then successor as chancellor) Ludwig Erhard who presided over West Germany's "economic miracle." The party's reputation as Germany's rock of stability continued under another long-term CDU chancellor, Helmut Kohl, who drove the German reunification in 1990 - a second foundational moment for Germans today.Platform: Angela Merkel represents both a continuation and a break from the CDU's traditional values - alongside Finance Minister Wolfgang Sch uble, German voters trust her to steward the economy safely, and she maintains an opposition to same-sex marriage. But her relatively liberal stance on immigration has turned much of the CDU base against her.Preferred coalition partners: FDP, SPD, possibly Greens Social Democratic Party (SPD) Color: RedChairperson: Martin SchulzChancellor candidate: Martin Schulz2013 Bundestag election result: 25.7 percent (193/630 seats)Membership: 440,000Voters:The SPD has traditionally been the party of the working classes, trade union-organized workers. Tthe SPD's most fertile ground in Germany remains in the densely-populated industrial regions of western Germany, particularly the Ruhr region in North Rhine-Westphalia, Hesse, and Lower Saxony.History:The SPD Germany's oldest political party, founded in 1875. In the tumultuous first decades of the 20th century, the party acted as an umbrella organization for a number of leftist movements, trade unionists, and communists. But with the founding of the Communist Party of Germany (KPD) in 1919, the SPD permanently became the home of the reformers, rather than the revolutionaries - though that didn't stop its politicians being sent to concentration camps during the Third Reich.The SPD's first chancellor - and despite his death still its honorary chairman - was Willy Brandt, who governed West Germany from 1969 to 1974 after having earned international reputation for reconciliation with post-war Eastern Europe when he was Foreign Minister in a coalition government with the CDU. He was succeeded by another SPD chancellor and figurehead Helmut Schmidt, and both remain hugely respected figures in German politics. Altogether, the party has been part of the German government for 34 of the 67 years of the Federal Republic and led governing coalitions for 21 of those.Platform:The SPD's strong suit has always been social policy, where it stands for a strong social infrastructure - though at the same time the party believes in sanctions-based unemployment benefits. The SPD was instrumental in introducing a national minimum wage in Germany - currently 8.84 euros ($9.40) an hour - in 2015.Nevertheless, the Agenda 2010 labor market reforms introduced by SPD Chancellor Gerhard Schr der in the early 2000s has lost the party some traditional support, and it's no accident that Martin Schulz's candidacy has been marked by an aggressive "correction" of the policy, and a new emphasis on social justice and tax redistribution.Preferred coalition partners: Greens, CDU, possibly the Left The Left (Die Linke)Color: Red (election coverage polls often use magenta to distinguish from SPD)Chairpeople: Katja Kipping, Bernd RiexingerCandidates: Sahra Wagenknecht, Dietmar Bartsch2013 Bundestag election result: 8.6 percent (64/630 seats)Membership: 60,000Voters: The Left party's stronghold certainly remains the "new German states" in the former East (where it is a fixture in state parliaments), where its voters tend to be former communists who supported the GDR, these are often older. The Left's western followers tend to be younger "protest" voters, who want to express their disenchantment with traditional parties. If polls are to be believed, many of these have switched to the populist nationalism of the AfD in the past two years.History: Though it was only founded in 2007, the Left party has a much longer history, and is still considered a direct descendent of the Socialist Unity Party (SED) that ruled the East German GDR until reunification with the West in 1990. The Left Party was formed out of a merger SED successor, the Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS), and Labour and Social Justice - The Electoral Alternative (WASG), a west German movement of trade unionists and disgruntled SPD members alienated by the welfare cuts introduced by Chancellor Gerhard Schr der. The most prominent of these was Schr der's first finance minister and SPD chairman, Oskar Lafontaine, a high profile SPD renegade, who later led the Left party and is still a prominent figure.Partly because of its association with the East German dictatorship, the Left remains a pariah for the other mainstream parties, and has never been part of a federal government coalition - though it has much government experience at state level.Voters: The Left party's stronghold certainly remains the "new German states" in the former East (where it is a fixture in state parliaments), where its voters tend to be former communists who supported the GDR, these are often older. The Left's western followers tend to be younger "protest" voters, who want to express their disenchantment with traditional parties. If polls are to be believed, many of these have switched to the populist nationalism of the AfD in the past two years.Platform: Currently the largest opposition party in the Bundestag, the Left is the only major German party that rejects military missions abroad. It also wants NATO to be dissolved and the minimum wage to be raised to 10 euros ($10.60) an hour. (It is currently 8.84 euros). Some political scientists still see the Left as a radical party that ultimately seeks to overturn the capitalist economic order, but the party itself actually only advocates stronger market regulation, stronger rental caps, and more social investment.Preferred coalition partners: SPD, Greens The Green Party (B ndnis 90/Die Gr nen)Color: GreenChairpeople: Cem zdemir, Simone PeterCandidates: Cem zdemir, Katrin G ring-Eckardt2013 Bundestag election result: 8.4 percent (63/630 seats)Membership: 60,000Voters: The Greens rely heavily on the well-educated, urban demographic for its voter base - and its strongholds tend to me major cities in western Germany, especially where universities are located. But its voters have also aged significantly over its 30-year history - less than 10 percent of Green voters are now under 35. By the same token, Green voters have become more affluent over the years, and the Greens struggle to attract working classes.History: The Green party is probably the most successful counter-culture movement in Germany's post-war political history. The party, whose official name is Alliance '90/The Greens, grew out of an assortment of social protest movements of the 1980s, who marched for everything from ending nuclear power to gay rights, and of course environmental protection. The fact that all of these causes have been incorporated into mainstream politics since the alliance was officially founded in 1993 (the Green party itself was founded in 1980) is largely their success. The party's biggest prominence came in the early 2000s, when it became junior partner to Gerhard Schr der's SPD in a federal government coalition, and supplied several cabinet ministers, including Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer. It's biggest electoral success, however, came in the 2009 election, when it claimed over 10 percent of the national vote for the first and only time.Platform: Political pundits tend to divide the Greens between the "realos" and the "fundis" - the "realists," who are willing to compromise party aims to have a say in government, and the more left-wing "fundamentalists," who are closer to the party's counter-culture roots. The "realos" have slowly taken control of the party, to the extent that it is now in a coalition with the conservative CDU in the southern state of Baden-W rttemberg (sometimes mooted as a potential blueprint for a federal government). While environmentalism remains a core cause (agriculture reform was a key achievement in the early 2000s), it has also tried to a push a leftist agenda on tax and social policy. However, its lack of success in the last election, and the prospect of a coalition with the CDU, suggests that it may opt for a more centrist approach this time.Preferred coalition partner: SPD Alternative for Germany (AfD)Color: Light blueChairpeople: Frauke Petry, J rg MeuthenCandidates: tbdMembership: 27,000Voters: The AfD has poached voters from all the other major parties (except the Greens), and has simultaneously succeeded in mobilizing many non-votersThe AfD scores best among lower income earners with lower education qualifications - though that is by no means its exclusive voter base. . Its membership, meanwhile, has one significant feature - only 15 percent are women.2013 Bundestag election result: 4.7 percent (0/630 seats)History: The right-wing nationalist Alternative for Germany (AfD) has surged to prominence in the four years of its. Founded just five months before the 2013 election, the AfD very nearly entered the Bundestag. Since then, it has managed to enter every state parliaments in regional elections and the European parlia- though that surge has dipped recently (at time of writing, it is polling at around 9 percent).The AfD was originally created by a group of Euro-skeptic academics as a protest against the single European currency - specifically sparked by Angela Merkel's decision to bail out Greece in 2010 following Europe's financial crisis. But a power struggle in 2015 ended with the ouster of party leader Bernd Lucke, to be replaced by Frauke Petry. Petry, along with other prominent figures, set a much more overtly nationalist, anti-immigrant, anti-Islam agenda, a policy that scored some success during the refugee crisis of 2015.In 2016, the AfD was the only major German party to welcome the election of US President Donald Trump and Britain's decision to leave the EU.Platform: The AfD wants to seal the EU's borders, institute rigorous identity checks along Germany's national borders and set up holding camps abroad to prevent migrants from leaving for Germany in the first place. The party wants to immediately deport anyone whose application for political asylum is rejected and to encourage foreigners financially to return to their home countries. The emphasizes the primacy of traditional German culture and rejects the idea that Islam is part of German society. It also questions the notion that climate change is man-made and wants to reverse Germany's ongoing transition to renewable energy sources.Preferred coalition partners: Ruled out by other parties, but closest in policy to the CDU Free Democratic Party (FDP)Color: YellowChairperson: Christian Lindner2013 Bundestag election result: 4.8 percent (0/630 seats)Membership: 54,000Voters: As the party of free enterprise, it's no surprise that the FDP has found the most voters among the self-employed, especially business owners, dentists, lawyers - and the fewest among workers.History: The Free Democrats were continuously represented in the German parliament since the Federal Republic was founded in 1949. The pro-free enterprise FDP slid below the 5-percent hurdle in 2013 and has struggled for relevance since.Founded in December 1948, the FDP has been kingmaker to both the CDU and the SPD in its time. It has participated in the federal government for a total of 41 years, longer than any other party. Though always a junior partner in coalition governments, it has provided those parties with many cabinet ministers, some of whom, such as Helmut Kohl's long-term foreign minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, have become major post-war historical figures in Germany.Platform: The FDP's party program is founded on the principle of individual freedom and civil rights - though while it has always campaigned for more tax cuts, it is also against leaving the financial markets unbridled. It is also a staunchly pro-European party, and its most recent manifesto calls for deepened of ties in the European Union.Preferred coalition partner: CDU 