The Russian activist and Kremlin critic Ildar Dadin was released from prison in February. He drew attention to himself with individual protests. He recounts in a DW interview his ordeal in prison. (03.03.2017) Russia has released an opposition activist after a court quashed his sentence. Ildar Dadin had been declared a prisoner of conscience by Amnesty International and complained of torture and other abuse behind bars. (26.02.2017) The accusation weighs heavily: Russian President Vladimir Putin has political responsibility for the murder of Kremlin critic Boris Nemtsov. Nemtsov's daughter spoke to DW about the situation in Russia. (28.05.2015) Thousands have taken to the streets. Kremlin critic Ildar Dadin released from prison. Opposition leader Alexei Navalny running for president. Don't mistake these developments for a political thaw, writes Juri Rescheto. (27.02.2017) Ildar Dadin is a "courageous citizen, who has broken the wheels of a huge government machine meant for those obedient and silent": This is how the Russian politician and publisher Lev Schlossberg, who received the Boris Nemtsov Prize last year, described this year's winner. "Dadin chose to lose his personal freedom in order to fight against the more universal lack of freedom," added Schlossberg at the ceremony in Bonn on Monday evening. Dadin and four other finalists, including opposition leader Alexei Navalny, had been shortlisted following an online public vote organized by Russia's liberal newspaper Novaya Gazeta.The winner was chosen by the Council of the Boris Nemtsov Foundation for Freedom, established by Nemtsov's daughter, DW-reporter and anchor Zhanna Nemtsova.The other finalists included the journalist and human rights activist Zoya Svetova, the imprisoned activist Sergei Mokhnatkin and Maksom Losev, a schoolboy who had organized an anti-corruption demonstration in his hometown of Bryansk in late March. The Boris Nemtsov Prize, named after the Russian opposition politician who was killed near the Kremlin in February 2015, was established last year. In 2017 and 2016, the award ceremony took place at Deutsche Welle in Bonn. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eYQZ "At all times, there are people who become symbols of resistance against the authoritarian system," said Vladimir Ashurkov, a close ally of Alexei Navalny and the executive director of his Anti-Corruption Foundation. He fled Russia following accusations of embezzlement, and was granted political asylum in the UK. Ashurkov told DW that Dadin had become such a symbol during the "new authoritarian time" in Russia, "representing the people." Who is Ildar Dadin? Ildar Dadin, a former security guard, quit his job to become a civil rights activist. He was the first and only prisoner convicted under a controversial new law that foresees a prison term of up to five years for multiple violations of public assembly regulations, such as unsanctioned protests. In December 2015, Dadin received a three-year prison term after staging one-man protests targeting the Kremlin. The sentence was later reduced to two years and six months. Before his detention, the activist had been repeatedly spotted near Red Square in Moscow holding banners with slogans such as: "Putin - the shame of Russia," or "Putin, leave Ukraine alone." Amnesty International called Dadin's sentence "a shocking and cynical attack on freedom of expression." The organization also suggested that Russian authorities were using the new regulation "to fast-track peaceful protests to prison." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eYQvIn November 2016, Dadin secretly sent a letter to his wife from the penal colony in Karelia, in which he accused its staff and administration of beatings and torture. The letter was later published by Russian media. In February 2017, Russia's Constitutional Court ruled that Dadin's sentence must be reconsidered as not corresponding with the rules of procedure. The court also decided that the law under which Dadin had been convicted should be amended. The activist was released from prison shortly after the ruling. Solidarity with Russian protesters Not having obtained the necessary travel documents, Dadin wasn't able to attend the award ceremony in Bonn. Human rights activist Sergei Davidis received the prize on his behalf. In a video message recorded for the ceremony, Dadin says he keeps fighting for the rule of law and human rights in Russia, adding that, to him, Boris Nemtsov is an "example of courage and fortitude." At the award ceremony in Bonn, the participants expressed their solidarity with the Russian protesters who took to the streets on Monday. Lev Schlossberg underlined that the rift between Russian citizens and the government in Moscow was growing. "We have lived through another year without freedom," he said, adding that the citizens and the authorities in Russia don't trust each other. "It has a symbolic dimension that this prize, which honors freedom, was being awarded on the day when tens of thousands of people across Russia took to the streets and paid for that with their freedom," Vladimir Ashurkov told DW. His boss, Alexei Navalny, was detained at the entrance door of his home in Moscow, before he could even join the protest. According to the police, the opposition leader was detained for calling on people to participate in an unsanctioned demonstration on Tverskaya Street near the Kremlin. Late in the evening, the court sentenced him to 30 days of arrest. The lawyer-turned-political campaigner has been among the most prominent figures of Russia's opposition to President Vladimir Putin. Navalny came to prominence in 2008, when his blog exposing malpractice in Russian politics and among the country's major state-owned companies came to the public's attention. Revelations published on his blog even led to resignations, a rarity in Russian politics.In 2011, Navalny was arrested for the first time, spending 15 days in prison for his role at a rally outside the State Duma in Moscow. The parliamentary election victory for Putin's United Russia was marred by instances of ballot stuffing, reported by demonstrators on social media. Upon his release, Navalny pledged to make "extraordinary efforts" to continue the protest movement.After being re-elected president in 2012, Putin ordered Russia's Investigative Committee to launch a criminal enquiry into Nivalny's past. The following year the campaigner was charged and sentenced again, this time for five years, for alleged embezzlement in the city of Kirov. However, he was released the following day pending affirmation from a higher court. The sentence was later suspended.Despite being embroiled in legal troubles, Navalny was allowed to run in the 2013 Moscow mayoral election. A second-place finish behind Putin-ally Sergei Sobyanin was seen as an overwhelming success and galvanized the Russian opposition movement. His anti-Kremlin rhetoric has led to Navalny being banned from appearing on Russian state-owned television. That has forced him to deliver his political message over social media and his blog. His talent for public speaking, punchy use of language and humorous mockery of Putin and his loyalists has mobilized a legion of young followers.In December 2016, the opposition leader announced the formal start of his campaign to run for the Russian presidency in March 2018. However, repeated accusations of corruption, which his supporters say are politically motivated, could ultimately bar him from running for public office.In 2016, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Russia had violated Navalny's right to a fair trial in the Kirov case. Although Russia's Supreme Court overturned the five-year sentence, the verdict was sent back to the Kirov court, which in 2017 again charged Navalny with a suspended five-year sentence. Navalny's challenge against the ruling remains ongoing.In February, 2017, anti-corruption rallies across dozens of Russian cities led to the arrests of over 1,000 demonstrators, including Navalny. The protests, believed to have been the largest in the Russian capital since 2012, were spurred by a report published by Navalny linking Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev to a billion-euro property empire. The presidential candidate was released 15 days later.Navalny was assaulted and hospitalized in April 2017 after being hit in the eye with a chemical green dye, permanently damaging his right cornea. Navalny accused the Russian authorities of stopping him from seeking medical treatment abroad due to the embezzlement conviction against him. However, he was eventually permitted by the Kremlin human rights council to travel to Spain for eye surgery. Author: David Martin