Municipal and Red Cross officials in northern Niger said Thursday only six individuals - five men and a woman - survived the ordeal by managing to walk until they were rescued near the town of Achigour.Niger is a major route for West Africans headed for Europe. Last year, about 330,000 transited the land-locked nation bound for Libya's Mediterranean coastline, according to the International Organization for Migration (IOM).Read: Types of protection in Germany for asylum seekersA picturesque moment is captured on camera. Photographer Herlinde Koelbl took this photo in Sicily, where thousands of refugees, many from Africa, had just been assisted after arriving. Some rested in makeshift initial reception centers, while others waited in buses. The media hubbub had already passed as this man headed to the toilet. Koelbl happened to be standing nearby and captured the image. Many pictures have been published of dazed refugees being rescued from over-crowded boats and given life jackets. However, pictures of what goes on behind the scenes are few and far between. Herlinde Koelbl looks for unusual themes and often finds images that tell their own stories.Clothing floats in the water on the Mediterranean coast, drifting from shore to shore. No one knows whether the people who wore them survived the dangerous journey across the ocean, or whether they are among the thousands who drowned.The outer borders of European countries have been militarily fortified with barbed wire and sometimes tanks to ensure no one enters. Koelbl visited some of these outposts and found that even in the shadow of such barriers, refugees attempt to establish themselves. Some live in small tents erected on the ground and hang their laundry to dry on barbed wire. Like small pods or cells that link together to form a larger network of dwellings, these emergency shelters are located in a German refugee reception center. At the very least, the spaces offer more privacy than wind-tattered provisional tents in camps in Greece or Macedonia, says Koelbl. The first stop for Koelbl's photo exhibition was the German Federal Foreign Office in Berlin. This picture shows the photographer, who initially worked as a fashion designer, at the opening. Herlinde Koelbl has also made a name for herself through previous politically ambitious photo projects, including "Traces of Power" and "Fine People."Herlinde Koebl enjoys focusing on a single subject over a long period of time. Some of her previous photos of refugees can be found on display at the Berlin Museum of Communication in the series "Silent Mail: From Hearing and Understanding." Her "Refugees" exhibition will be on display at the Munich Litaraturhaus until May 7 and will then travel to New York. Author: Heike Mund (sh) Desert routes deadlyEarly in May, eight migrants from Niger, five of them children, were found dead in the desert while on their way to Algeria.Last year, the Danish organization 4mi said it was likely that more migrants perished in the desert than the thousands who drown in the Mediterranean.Last month, Italy and Germany called for an EU mission to be installed along Libya's border with Niger to reduce migrant inflows.Read: DRC's homemade refugee crisis Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2dCjoipj/rt (Reuters, AFP, AP, dpa)