The German capital of Berlin was gripped by panda fever Saturday as the city anticipated the arrival of two VIP guests from China: a pair of giant pandas known as Meng Meng (meaning Sweet Dream) and Jiao Qing (Darling).The pandas were greeted at Berlin's Sch nefeld airport by Berlin Mayor Michael M ller, China's ambassador to Germany and a flurry of journalists.The pandas were then quickly loaded into a van and driven to Berlin Zoo. There, they will acclimatize for a week before being unveiled to the public by no less than German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Chinese President Xi Jinping.The Chinese president will be in Germany to attend the G20 summit in Hamburg.Read more: Why our obsession with animals is schizophrenicBerlin Mayor Michael M ller said on Saturday that the city was "happy to be an attraction richer.""Pandas are something special and they belong in Berlin," he added. "Since the death of Bao Bao in 2012 there has been a feeling that something is missing."Bao Bao, lived to be 34, becoming the oldest male panda in the world before he died.Pandas fly first classThe two pandas were flown in on a Lufthansa Cargo plane from Chengdu, in southwestern China. The airline made a special detour from its scheduled flight from Beijing to Berlin when stopping to pick up the two pandas. The 12-hour journey was thoroughly planned, with plenty of bamboo and "panda snacks" to keep the two black and white bears happy. Their transport crates were lined with absorbent mats that will keep their transport boxes dry and odorless."It is important that the animals do not understand that something special is going on," said Andreas Ochs, Berlin Zoo's head veterinarian. The transport crates were designed in such a way that "the pandas won't be able to follow what's going on around them.""We are obviously nervous now because everything must go well," Berlin Zoo director Andreas Knieriem told the German radio station SWR radio on Friday.The pandas were shipped from China in cratesMost animals dispatched to Germany pass through Lufthansa Cargo's Animal Lounge in Frankfurt airport, considered to be the most advanced animal station in the world.Read more: New Airport Lounge Opens for Traveling CrittersBerlin's cost to host pandasThe zoo is investing heavily to host the pandas. The zoo will pay Beijing $1 million (890,000 euros) per year over 15 years to host the bears. Most of the funds will go towards the Chinese government's research program on panda conservation and breeding.The pandas' new enclosure was waiting for themBerlin Zoo has also built a special 5,500-square-meter (59,000-square-foot) home for the pandas, complete with a wooded climbing area and artificial stream.Feeding Meng Meng and Jiao Qing bamboo will cost tens of thousands of euros per year.Berlin Zoo has sought to stoke excitement, posting daily blog posts in the run-up to the pandas' arrival.The pandas will be the zoo's star attraction - possibly the biggest since the world-famous baby polar bear Knut, who died unexpectedly six years ago.Panda diplomacyChina dispatching pandas to friendly nations. As the world's two leading export giants, Germany and China have nurtured closer economic ties in recent years and recently led championing calls for free trade and market liberalization.Merkel and Xi will officially present the pandsas"The Chinese see the pandas as Chinese brand ambassadors," Bernhard Bartsch, from Berlin's Bertelsmann Foundation think tank. told the AFP news agency. "China obviously has an image problem in Europe, and giving pandas is a very smart and easy way to win hearts." The "pandas will lend a very positive spin in German media to the visit by Xi Jinping in July," Bartsch added.Only about a dozen other countries have received pandas as a special symbolic gift from China, including the Netherlands and UK.Meng Meng and Jiao Qing will be the fourth and fifth pandas given to Germany.Trees for climbing, an artificial river, species-appropriate plants - preparations for the Chinese pandas Jiao Qing (pictured) and Meng Meng are in high gear at Berlin's Zoological Garden. The Panda Plaza will be up and running when the two arrive on a first-class flight from China on June 24. But such luxury for animals was not always the case. Here's a look back at the history of German zoos.Professor of zoology Martin Hinrich Lichtenstein was so enthused with the Zoological Garden in London that he wanted to build one himself. In 1841, he was able to convince Friedrich Wilhelm IV to do it. The King of Prussia decreed that some 22 hectares (54 acres) be sectioned off from Berlin's Tiergarten and turned into Germany's first Zoological Garden.By 1845, two coatis, three Arctic foxes, a red jackel, two badgers, 24 monkeys, and three bears from Siberia were living there. In 1846, lions and tigers were moved into their own building. The first elephant came onto the scene in 1857, in 1861 the first zebra. Yet sadly, there was a high animal mortality rate. The Sch nbrunn Zoo in Vienna took a completely different and much grander approach. In 1906, the first elephant to be conceived in a zoo was born. By 1914, Sch nbrunn was one of the largest zoos in the world, with 3,500 animals from 717 species. It became a role model for the Berlin Zoo. Today, Sch nbrunn is one of the oldest existing zoos in the world and allegedly the most visited in Europe.Many zoos sprung up in German-speaking countries in the second half of the 19th century. After Berlin, Frankfurt, Cologne, Hamburg, Basel, and Leipzig followed suit. But Prussian King Wilhelm IV had already created his own wildlife park back in 1571, which he used not only for hunting - he also allowed nature researchers to live there.Many compounds, such as this Antelope House in Berlin's Zoological Garden, were built in the 19th century and attempted to reflect the exotic origins of the animals. But as aesthetically appealing as they may have been, they were not always species-appropriate. Still, they cannot be altered because building conservation laws stand in the way. In the 20th century, zoos popped up all over Germany, and aquariums opened up as well. Monkey parks, ocean parks and bird parks became a craze, and people could even drive their cars or take the bus through safari parks. With the economic boom of the 50s and 60s in Germany, even smaller cities could open zoos or animal parks.Post-war Germany saw a boom in zoos, with people eager to witness exotic animals. Zoos became living classrooms, but a remotely species-appropriate way of keeping the animals wasn't a priority. Cages and trenches separated lions, tigers and elephants from visitors. It wasn't until the 1970s that research revealed more insight into the psychology of animals, and zoos began altering their designs.A milestone in zoo design are panorama areas such as the one Carl Hagenbeck built in Hamburg. Rather than being stuck in cages in a systematic way, animals are kept according to "continents." Lions live near zebras, giraffes, and elephants, for instance, in the "Africa" region of the zoo. Green zones at the Cologne Zoo (pictured) ensure that animals are kept similarly to their natural habitat.Small cages and concrete pens are becoming more and more a thing of the past. Yet how zoos develop in the future depends on smart management. Some zoos, such as in Frankfurt, for instance, have decided to close their elephant houses. As a small zoo in the inner city with just 11 hectares (27 acres), it simply could not provide the animals with enough space. Zoos breed species and aim to return them to the wild. They are also involved in environmental conservation and educate visitors about their habitats. But zoo opponents say that to keep certain animals species alive only in zoos is unethical. Instead, focus should be placed on keeping their natural habitats intact. Pictured is a newborn platypus named Mackenzie.Zoos in Germany get more visitors than sporting events. Nowadays, they're more like entertainment parks with adventure playgrounds, themed restaurants and merry-go-rounds. A little farm at the Cologne Zoo recently opened, where visitors can pet cows and goats. Zoos are now irreplaceable, not only for visitors to reconnect with nature, but also to preserve certain endangered animals. Author: Sabine Oelze (als) dm/sms (dpa, AFP)