West died of bone cancer on Friday night in Los Angeles, his family said on Saturday in a Facebook statement."It's with great sadness that we are sharing this news. Adam West passed away peacefully last night after a short but brave battle with leukemia," the statement said. "There are no words to describe how much we'll miss him."The actor was most famous for the title role in American broadcaster ABC's "Batman" television series that debuted in 1966. The show - with its light, campy spin - was a hit. It lasted three seasons and forever immortalized West as the straight-faced, tights-wearing "Caped Crusader" who battled enemies against a background of colorful, comic-book "Pows!" and "Bangs!" It also led to a 1966 feature film spin-off.Batman was always accompanied by his sidekick Robin (played by Burt Ward)After the show's cancelation in 1968, West struggled to find serious film work. Though he initially resented the type-casting that he felt resulted from the Batman role, he later came to embrace his iconic and uplifting role."I decided that since so many people love Batman, I might as well love it too. Why not? So I began to reengage myself with Batman. And I saw the comedy. I saw the love people had for it, and I just embraced it," West said in an interview with Variety magazine.The one and only BatmanAdam West was the stage name of William West Anderson. Born in 1928 in Walla Walla, Washington, the actor kicked off his career in the 1950's with a string of TV roles in Western and cop series.After the Batman series, he worked as an in-demand character and voice-over actor, including on the popular series "Family Guy" as the Mayor named Adam West. In 2012, West received a star on the Walk of Fame on Hollywood Boulevard.For many fans around the world, West remained the truest version of Batman, especially as screen representations of the superhero took a darker turn beginning in the 1970's and 80's.Leading figures in the film industry took to twitter to mourn the loss of West, including 20th Century Fox, which produced the 1966 spin-off film starring West.The Robin to West's Batman, actor Burt Ward, said he was devastated by the death of his lifelong friend."In my eyes, there was only one real Batman that is and always will be Adam West. He was truly the Bright Knight," Ward added, using the superhero's nickname that West himself preferred, in contrast to the modern "Dark Knight" take on the superhero.Mark Hamill, the original Luke Skywalker, tweeted his condolences online. Hamill voiced Batman's greatest enemy, the Joker, in Batman: The Animated Series and various animated movies and video games.Kevin Conroy, the actor who gave Batman his inconic voice in animated features opposite Mark Hamill, also mourned "the Batman of [his] childhood."As did Hollywood director Edgar Wright: And even fans too young to have seen West on their own televions screens expressed their gratitude for the memories the actor gave to their parents' generation.West's family's statement thanked his fans for all their love and support over the years."Our dad always saw himself as The Bright Knight, and aspired to make a positive impact on his fans' lives. He was and always will be our hero, they said.In the new movie featuring both Batman and Superman, the two superheroes have to set their differences aside and join forces with Wonder Woman to save the world - as the tradition of the genre has long established. The three characters were launched by DC Comics, a publisher founded in 1934.He's the grandfather of all superheroes: Superman was created in 1933 by the two cartoonists Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster. Superman's superpowers include super-speed, super-strength, super-vision, super-hearing, super-breath, flight, and basically invulnerability - although Kryptonite blocks his powers. That's because he comes from planet Krypton. He can count on the Sun to magnify his abilities.She first appeared in Superman comics, and got her own series in 1959. Supergirl has the same powers and abilities as her cousin. The 1984 film "Supergirl," starring Helen Slater, was a box office flop. A new TV series was created in 2015 and just started airing in Germany. Incidentally, Helen Slater plays the role of Supergirl's adoptive mother in the show.Peter Parker was bitten by a radioactive spider and that gave him the super powers that allow him to be Spider-Man. He can stick to walls and sense danger before everyone else. He can fire cobwebs to block his opponents. He neglects his girlfriend, as his great feeling of responsibility prevails over everything else. Spider-Man was created in 1962 and is still the most famous Marvel character.When scientist Bruce Banner accidentally gets exposed to massive amounts of gamma radiation, something unusual happens to him. When he gets angry, he turns into a big green monster called the Hulk. Hulk is not very smart, but extremely strong. Once Banner learns to control the Hulk, he becomes a useful superhero.In 1941, Captain America was created as a patriotic super-soldier fighting against the Nazis. He's a fighting machine whose only weapon is a near-indestructible shield. Thanks to a serum developed by the military, Cap's strength, endurance and reflexes are amplified. Unfortunately, the Nazis also gain access to the super-serum As a child, Bruce Wayne witnessed the murder of his parents. The traumatizing experience leads him to take on the life mission of eliminating crime from his home town, Gotham City, as Batman. His power is based on hard training, intelligence and technology. He took on a bat costume to inspire fear. His main weapon is the Batmobile, a car that can basically do everything - except fly.She started out as Batman's adversary, but they have sometimes worked together - and had quite a few romantic encounters. The sexy Catwoman has appeared in several films, embodied by famous actresses. Michelle Pfeiffer portrayed her in 1992, Halle Berry (pictured) in 2004, and Anne Hattaway in "The Dark Knight Rises," in 2012.Matt Murdock looses his eyesight after getting blinded by a radioactive liquid during an accident. This unusually heightens his remaining senses - he can even hear through walls. He becomes a successful lawyer and takes on a second identity as superhero Daredevil. That's how he can fight criminals that manage to find protection under the law during the day.The son of a witch and a demon, Hellboy was born in another dimension: Hell. Born in flames, he is naturally fire resistant, super strong, and virtually invulnerable. As a weapon, he uses a special revolver and different items disliked by paranormal forces, such as holy water, garlic and silver. He hunts demons and saves humanity as it faces the Apocalypse.As Wade Wilson learns he has cancer, he puts himself through a risky experiment that cures him, but also disfigures him. Wade becomes Deadpool, who seeks revenge against his tormentors. This antihero is brutal, psychotic and has a dark sense of humor. The 2016 film based on the character is one the world's biggest box office hits.The Watchmen are not a typical crew of superheroes either. The DC comics "Watchmen" landed on "Time" magazine's list of 100 best novels published in English between 1923 and 2005. A film adaptation came in 2009, where one member of the crew gets murdered and the rest of the group search for the perpetrators, uncovering a conspiracy through their investigation.They are young mutants with supernatural abilities. Wolverine (pictured) has a metal-reinforced skeleton and can extend steel claws. Other mutants in the team can teleport, freeze their surroundings, or destroy enemies with their eyes. The strongest mutant is Magneto, but he also has served as a supervillain chased by the X-Men.The Fantastic Four are a group of heroes with different skills acquired by traveling to outer space: Reed, or Mister Fantastic, is extremely flexible; Susan, the Invisible Woman, can become invisible and create force fields; her brother Johnny, the Human Torch, can control fire and fly; and Ben, the Thing, is the stone muscleman. Together they save humanity.Marvel superheroes unite! Along with Captain America and Hulk, this team also includes Black Widow, who's a spy; Iron Man, who has a powered armor; and Thor, whose hammer can generate thunder and lightning. Many other Marvel characters have appeared in the "Avengers" comics since 1963. The movies featuring the team are among the world's top grossing blockbusters. Author: Silke W nsch / eg cb,dj(AP, dpa)