This week marks the 50th anniversary of the Six-Day War, in which Israel fought against Egypt, Jordan and Syria and managed to conquer the West Bank, the Sinai Peninsula, East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights within less than a week, thereby tripling its territory.On paper, it was the shortest war in Israel's history, which only lasted for six days. But in reality, the effects are still felt today, 50 years later, as the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians is still ongoing and violent clashes between both sides often escalate. In an interview with Conflict Zone, Israeli politician Yair Lapid said that Israel is not to blame for these escalations. "We are not the aggressor in Gaza," he said."We have done in Gaza whatever the world has asked us to do. We left, we dismantled the settlements. The army left."Is Israel doing enough to promote the rights of Arabs?According to the latest human rights report from the United States Department of State, there was still institutional and societal discrimination in Israel against its Arab citizens in 2016.But in the interview, Lapid denied that Israel is discriminating against its Arabic citizens. "I don't think we don't have equality in this country," he said."We are the only country in the Middle East that did anything to promote the democratic rights of Arab citizens."He argued that "calling Israel a discriminatory country is a smear" and stated that "Israel is the one who is being treated in an unfair way."United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on 22 November 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders.This picture, taken on March 26 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the peace treaty in Washington. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. This war eventually led to the peace talks which lasted 12 days and resulted in two agreements.The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions, which involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians, who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time, achieved little, although it did create the framework for later talks.Negotiations, which took place in Norway, between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) resulted in the first deal between the two sides, the Oslo Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period.US President, Bill Clinton, invited Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, and PLO Chairman, Yasser Arafat, to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees, and Jerusalem. Despite more detailed negotiations than ever before, no agreement was reached. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising.The Camp David negotiations were followed by meetings in Washington, then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt. They too were without results. Later, the Arab Peace Initiative was proposed in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to the lines of June 1967, so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries agreed to recognize Israel.The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. In June 2003, Prime Minister Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart Mahmoud Abbas, accepted the road map, with the Security Council also approving it in November. The timetable called for the final agreement to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented.In 2007, US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to re-launch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Olmert, and Palestinian Authority s President, Mahmoud Abbas, took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008.In 2010, special US Envoy George Mitchell s efforts led to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreeing to and implementing a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to re-launch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock.A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence, and eventually led to the launch of the Israeli military operation, Protective Edge, which ended with a ceasefire on 26 August 2014.Envoys from over 70 countries have gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu has slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives are attending the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said at the opening of the event. Author: Aasim Saleem Calling for separationLapid strongly defended his standpoint of putting the Jewish population's security first."Are we not allowed to protect the life of our children? Is this something only the other side has the right to?" asked the head of the centrist Yesh Atid party.He claimed Palestinians are "using, or misusing, all the rights they have been given in order to promote terror" and stressed that the Jewish people are scared and that "people feel that we've tried everything."Therefore, Lapid said Israel has to separate from the Palestinians and build "the highest wall possible between the two people."He further elaborated on his peace plan, which is based on regional cooperation and negotiations with moderate Sunni states in order to establish a Palestinian state alongside Israel, in what is known as the "two-state solution".Settlements part of two-state solutionLapid, who is tipped by many as the future prime minister, also said that any future peace agreement would have to include the big blocks of settlements around Jerusalem and in Ariel and that Israel will not make any unilateral steps. "What is happening outside the big blocks is probably the future state of Palestine. Inside the big blocks it's Israel and going to stay Israel, he said."We are willing to go to start a process in order to compromise and have a two-state solution. But we're not going to do anything that will harm Israel's security. There is no way of going back to 1967 or 1948. Things have changed and this is part of Israel and it's going to stay part of Israel, Lapid stated."Israel will protect its interests no matter what. And we are not asking permission from anybody whether or not to stay in our homeland."Settlement disputeHowever, settlements have been one of the most contentious issues between Israelis and Palestinians since the Six-Day War.According to the Israeli advocacy group Peace Now, more than 130 settlements have been officially established in the West Bank since 1967, along with more than 90 outposts, which were built without government approval.There are currently more than half-a-million Jewish settlers in the West Bank and East Jerusalem.Palestinians argue settlements, along with Israeli-only roads, security barriers and military checkpoints, threaten the viability of a two-state solution.Palestinian Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah told Conflict Zone in early 2016 that the "expansion of settlements on a daily basis kills the viability of a Palestinian state."Most countries across the world view settlement building on Palestinian land as a violation of international law.In December 2016, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution that said the establishment of settlements in Palestinian territory occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem, had "no legal validity" and "constituted a flagrant violation under international law and a major obstacle to the vision of two states living side-by-side in peace and security." It called for an immediate halt to all settlement building.Confronted with this resolution, Lapid called the UN "biased against Israel."Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has also labeled the UN call "shameful" and retaliated with a government decision on a major settlement expansion consisting of thousands of new housing units in the West Bank. .'BDS movement is biased and doesn't know what it's talking about'Lapid has described the leaders of the Boycott, Divestments and Sanctions (BDS) movement, which claim to be "working to end international support for Israel's oppression of Palestinians", as anti-Semites linked to the Palestinian Mufti who collaborated with the Nazis."I think BDS is a Hamas financed, a terror financed movement," he said on Conflict Zone.Lapid also said that Jewish Voices for Peace in the US are "useful idiots used by Hamas who don't know what they are talking about. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eHYV"Free the people who hang gay people from telephone poles. Free the people who think it's okay to beat your wife. Free the people who think it's okay to burn churches and to kill Jews and Christians just because they're Jews or Christians. These are the kind of people they want to free. This is the kind of people they want to support. This is the BDS movement."