Turkish police broke up groups of people looking to take part in gay pride marches in Istanbul on Sunday. A day after the city banned the demonstrations from taking place, authorities fired rubber bullets and tear gas to prevent marchers from gathering. A similar gay pride parade in 2014 drew tens of thousands of people and was one of the largest pro-LGBTI events in the mainly Muslim region.The 2017 Istanbul LBGTI Pride organizers had said they would press ahead with their planned march, despite it being banned for the third year in succession."We are not scared, we are here, we will not change," the Pride Committee said in a statement on Sunday. "You are scared, you will change and you will get used to it."Police kept gay pride marchers from holding a parade in IstanbulSmall groups began to gather in the city's Taksim Square ahead of the 5 p.m. march, but they were said to be heavily outnumbered by police.The Governor's Office in Istanbul said it prevented the demonstration for the security of marchers, tourists and residents. But march organizers said the rationale behind the police action was different."The true reason for the reactions towards a march that took place in peace for 12 years is hate," organizers said."Our security cannot be provided by imprisoning us behind walls, asking us to hide," they added. "Our security will be provided by recognizing us in the constitution, by securing justice, by equality and freedom."Read more: In Istanbul, Mr. Gay Syria fears for his lifeRiot police at the event last year fired rubber bullets to disperse protesters who defied the ban at a time when the city was on high alert after bombing blamed on the "Islamic State" militant group. Eleven activists appeared in court this week for having flouted the ban at that time. All were acquitted.The far-right Alperen Hearths group last week said it would stop the parade from going ahead, even if the government did permit it. This year the march coincides with the first day of the Eid al-Fitr feast, which marks the end of the holy month of Ramadan.Petition made 'weeks ago' Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1JHq4City officials claim there has been no official application for this year's march, but organizer Lara Ozlen from the parade's organizing committee told the AFP news agency this was a "lie." "They had known about our plan long before because we presented a petition weeks ago," Ozlen said.Read more: Gay referee wins court battle against Turkish Football FederationRead more: German politicians among several detained at banned Istanbul gay pride eventThousands took part in previous gay pride marches in the decade leading up to 2015, when the parade was first banned.Critics accuse President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of having steered Turkey towards creeping Islamization. While he has repeatedly caused controversy with conservative comments on sex and family planning, he has tended to avoid public comment on gay issues.Amnesty International said it had "deep concerns" over the ban. "That decision ignores LGBTs' and their supporters' right to peaceful assembly," it said. "Turkey should protect gay pride rather than banning it."rc/sms (AFP, AP, Reuters, dpa)