The Organization of American States (OAS) failed on Monday to agree on a resolution to quell violent anti-government protests in Venezuela. Discussions among OAS foreign ministers in Mexico fell apart when a proposed resolution calling for representative democracy in the oil-rich nation failed to win the required number of votes to pass. Representatives from Venezuela stormed out of the talks, claiming other nations would soon follow.Read more: 5 things to understand about oil-rich, cash-poor VenezuelaVenezuela has been engulfed by a political crisis since the beginning of April, spurred by a decision by Venezuela's Supreme Court to strip the opposition-controlled legislative branch of its powers. The decision was seen by many as a blatant power grab by President Nicolas Maduro and his allies. "I d been working as a journalist for a year when the protests started in 2014. Many independent media have come into existence in the last two years due to the government censorship, and that's how I became a reporter," Ivan Reyes told DW. He started capturing the new wave of riots on a daily basis at the end of March.The ruling by the Supreme Tribunal of Justice, which took away immunity from opposition parliamentarians, set off a surge of protests paralyzing the country. Although the protests were peaceful at first, government forces soon started throwing stones into the crowds. "Seriously, the police were given stones! This man, Lino Rivera, was hit by one on April 4," Reyes said.The marches take place all over Caracas every day, but they usually end on the city highways. This photo shows two officers of the national guard shooting tear gas grenades into the lines of protesters. "The projectiles should be shot above people s heads - so the international laws says," says Reyes. "But the armed forces shoot straight into the demonstrators."Juan Pablo Pernalete, 20, died after being hit by a projectile on April 26. The death of the student of Universidad Metropolitana triggered angry protests in the following days. "People were chanting 'Todos somos Juan! Todos somos Juan!'" ("We are all Juan") Reyes told DW. Congressmen Miguel Pizarro and Carlos Paparoni and the Governor of Miranda Henrique Capriles all came to pay tribute.Defense has become the key element for survival. "The people seem to be organized better every day," says Reyes. Against the wishes of the protest leaders, several groups have started using DIY weapons and even Molotov cocktails against the government forces, as seen in this photo. "It s a battle they can t win," says Reyes."Jes s was one of those injured in the demonstrations on May 4. He was gasping and stuttering after he got hit in the head. People in the crowd spotted him and carried him to one side where paramedics gave him first aid. The members of Primeros Auxilios UCV are the real heroes of history," Reyes said of the group of doctors who go to the protests every day to help the injured.On May 6, a women s protest against the regime was organized by Mesa de la Unidad Democr tica, Venezuela's opposition party. The march wasn t allowed to reach its destination, the Ministry of Justice, as they were halted by female officers of the national police. Former politician Mar a Corina Machado and the student president of Universidad Central de Venezuela were among the protesters.This image shot by Reyes went viral right after it was published by the author on May 8. The picture is one of the strongest snapshots from the Venezuelan protests, showing a young man walking down a road playing the Venezuelan anthem. "I don t see the protests ending soon," said Reyes. "Let s see which side gets tired first." Author: Ivan Reyes (Venezuela) Although Maduro later reversed the decision, protests have continued in response to the country's desperate economic situation and depleting supply of basic goods, such as food and medicine.Violent demonstrations have led to more than 70 deaths and 1,300 injuries.Maduro also plans to hold elections for the opposition-controlled National Assembly next month in a bid to revamp the country's constitution.Critics are determined to stop the vote, alleging that the elections are merely an attempt by the president to reform the assembly in his favor and ultimately dissolve the body.The OAS proposal called on Maduro to "reconsider" a call for the assembly to re-write the country's constitution. It received 20 votes of support and five against. Eight countries, including Venezuela, abstained, causing it to fall short of the two-thirds majority needed to pass.Ministers warn of ongoing violenceMinisters expressed regret that the resolution failed to win enough support."I do not want our hemisphere to continue breaking apart anymore," Guatemalan Foreign Minister Carlos Morales, the acting chair of the meeting, said. "We need to look for solutions, to continue the dialogue and the only way to continue this dialogue is to keep this session open without a determinate date."Read more: More injuries in Venezuela as regime pushes referendumMexican Foreign Secretary Luis Videgaray said: "While we can't reach an agreement here - on the streets or Caracas and many other streets in other cities in Venezuela, today the violence continues." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2dro7Michael Fitzpatrick, US deputy assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs, thought "we had such an agreement earlier in the day."This is not the first time the OAS failed to pass a resolution on the violence in Venezuela. The OAS tried to strike a resolution in June but failed to reach consensus on a joint declaration.Venezuela storms outThe AP news agency reported that Venezuelan Foreign Minister Delcy Rodriguez stormed out of the OAS meeting, claiming that other nations would soon follow.Rodriguez did not say which other nations support Venezuela, but Venezuela received support from other left-leaning countries in the region, including Nicaragua, Bolivia and Ecuador. Venezuela previously announced its intentions to leave OAS, but the official website still lists Venezuela as an official member. While Rodriguez attended the talks, she said that her country would "not recognize any resolution coming out of it."The OAS is scheduled to meet until Wednesday. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eTQvdm/rg (AFP, AP)