US authorities have issued international arrest warrants for five former Volkswagen (VW) managers and developers over the Dieselgate emissions scandal, reported Munich-based newspaper S ddeutsche Zeitung on Thursday.The former VW executives stand accused of conspiring to commit fraud and violating US environmental regulations, according to the report. It added that at least two of them were confidants of former VW CEO Martin Winterkorn.VW has struggled to put an end to the fallout caused by revelations in 2015 that several of its diesel models included software that deliberately cheated emissions tests. The ensuing scandal led to Winterkorn's resignation.Read more: VW keeps Dieselgate probe findings under wrapsAccording to S ddeutsche Zeitung, Germany is not expected to hand over the five suspects to American authorities. However, the international arrest warrant makes it nearly impossible for them to leave the country since most countries abide by Interpol warrants.About two weeks after Volkswagen admitted behind closed doors to US environmental regulators that it had installed cheating software in some 11 million of its diesel vehicles worldwide, the Environmental Protection Agency shared that information with the public. It was Sept. 18, 2015. Over the next year, the crisis would gain momentum - and take a few unexpected turns.Volkswagen's CEO, Martin Winterkorn, had little choice but to step down several days after news of the scandal broke. On Sept. 23, he tendered his resignation. But he kept his other posts within the Volkswagen Group. To this day, he still maintains he never knew anything about the cheating.Winterkorn's successor was Matthias M ller. Until taking the reins at VW, M ller had been the chairman at Porsche, a VW subsidiary. Like his predecessor, M ller insisted he knew nothing of the deception. It is now his responsibility to clean up shop at Europe's largest car maker. That wasn't always easy.Regulators in the US weren't the only ones investigating VW. Authorities in Lower Saxony, the German state in which VW is based, were also scrutinizing the company. On Oct. 8, state prosecutors raided VW HQ and several other locations.On Jan. 4 of this year, the US government filed a lawsuit against VW, accusing it of fraud and violations of American climate protection regulations.Even before Germany's Federal Motor Transport Authority gave the green light, VW began recalling "Amarok" models for repairs. As early as Jan. 27, the company was aiming to provide a software update for the truck's digital motor and exhaust control. Owners of other affected models, such as the Passat or Golf, had to wait.On March 9, the head of VW in the US, Michael Horn, resigned. In the initial days and weeks after the scandal broke, he was the one many people in the US turned to for information. He issued an official apology on behalf of the automaker, asking for the public's forgiveness.It's not every day that a district judge from the US is as well known in Germany as Charles Breyer, from San Francisco. The highest-ranking judge in northern California, Breyer was responsible for negotiating with VW. On April 21, the car company came to an agreement with US authorities, though many of the details remained unclear.On June 28, it became clear that VW would have to pay as much as $14.7 billion (13.3 billion euros), alluding to a settlement. Affected cars would be retrofitted with better, non-deceptive hardware and software, or else VW would buy them back completely from customers. Whether VW will be forced to offer consumers in other countries a similar deal is unclear. Author: Dirk Kaufmann / cjc Unending scandalIf confirmed, the warrants would mark the latest move by the US to bring to justice VW employees suspected of criminal intent in skirting environmental regulations.In January, US federal agents arrested the man in charge of VW's environmental and engineering office in Michigan, where he served as the company's top US compliance manager for years.Read more: Merkel testifies she knew nothing of VW 'Dieselgate' in advanceAccording to prosecutors, the man had conspired to sell around 600,000 vehicles that failed to comply with American emissions standards. He faces up to 25 years in prison for fraud and conspiracy-related charges.S ddeutsche Zeitung reported that part of Germany's decision to not hand over the suspects is that they would face extremely high jail sentences if found guilty, when compared to German sentencing standards.Did you know that Volkswagen - or the 'people's car' - was Adolf Hitler's brainchild, and that it was developed by Porsche founder Ferdinand Porsche? In 1938, Hitler even had built an entire city just to house the factory and its workers. First known as "City of the [Kraft durch Freude] Car at Fallersleben," it was renamed Wolfsburg on May 25, 1945. To this day, the city remains home to VW.From Hitler's wet dream on wheels to the world's favorite love-bug: The original Beetle - known in Germany as 'Der K fer' - ruled the list of the world's best-selling car for much of the 20th century. By the time production was discontinued in 2003, more than 21.5 million Beetles had been sold worldwide.The company has come a long way since the 1930s. The Volkswagen Group's garage currently fits 12 brands under its roof. Audi, Bentley, Lamborghini, Porsche and Skoda are among its best-selling subsidiaries, accounting for 37 percent of 2014 sales.Today, Volkswagen really has become the "People's Car": The Group accounts for more than every third car - 36 percent, to be exact - sold in Germany.Globally, more than 1 out of every 10 cars sold in 2014 was a Volkswagen Group brand. The company sold more than 10.2 million vehicles in that year. 7 out of 10 were sold outside Germany.The coveted US market has proven to be a real thorn in the eye for the German carmaker. Just 6 percent of its cars - or some 600,000 - were sold abroad. Despite huge investments, its market share there has been stuck at about 2 percent, trailing far behind competitors like GM, Ford and Toyota.In July, 2015 Volkswagen overtook Toyota as the world's top-selling carmaker. It's also the world's biggest automotive company by revenue. In 2014, it reported sales of 202.5 billion euros. Profit after tax came in at 11.1 billion euros. But after the emissions scandal, analysts warn VW's pole position could be at risk.As of December 31, 2014, the Group employed nearly 600,000 workers, making it one of the biggest employers worldwide. More than a third - some 270,000 - worked at one of its German locations.The auto industry is the largest sector in the Germany economy, fuelled by the so-called 'Big Three' - Daimler, BMW and VW. Combined, the industry employs nearly 800,000 people - or almost 2 percent of the German workforce.The German car industry's total revenue nearly topped 370 billion euros in 2014. It made up about one-fifth of the country's exports, and contributed around 3 percent to German GDP. Author: Peter Dahl