Germany could restart its program of deportation of failed asylum-seekers to Afghanistan as soon as next week, German media reported on Thursday.Germany halted its controversial deportation program earlier this month after the Afghan capital of Kabul was struck with one of its deadliest suicide bombings.Separate reports from public broadcaster NDR and news magazine Der Spiegel said a new deportation flight to Kabul from Leipzig could leave on Wednesday.Those reports were not officially confirmed.Read more: The dark side of Germany's deportation policyRead more: Things to know about deportations in GermanyAfter the bombing, Germany's federal and state governments agreed on a suspension of deportations to Afghanistan until a further security assessment by the Foreign Ministry. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said the halt would likely last until July. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2e4utMerkel also said they would continue to deport criminals and security threats as well as those who did not want to release their identity.Rights groups decry policyMany German politicians and rights groups have long argued that Merkel's government was not justified in sending refugees back to Afghanistan due to safety concerns. G nter Burkhardt, head of the refugee rights organization, Pro Asyl, said it was "incomprehensible and appalling" that the deportations should begin again.He also warned that the broad wording of the policy puts many Afghans in danger. Migrants seeking protection but who do not own a passport could be seen to be refusing to their release their identity, he said, adding that the terms "criminal" and "security risks" are also subjective and could be interpreted very broadly."Between January and April 2017, Germany deported a total of 8,620 failed asylum-seekers, according to a report by Die Welt am Sonntag, which cited figures from Germany's federal police. Last year it deported more than 25,000.Some 11,195 failed asylum-seekers returned to their home country voluntarily in the first four months of 2017. In 2016, a total of 54,006 people chose the voluntary return program, which covers certain costs, including travel expenses.Read more: German Foreign Minister Gabriel calls for peace talks with TalibanRead more: Afghanistan: sent back to a war zoneDangers facing returneesA massive truck bomb killed at least 90 people in the Afghan capital Kabul on May 31, 2017. The target of the attack was Kabul's heavily fortified diplomatic area in the "Green Zone." The German embassy in the area was extensively damaged. No group claimed responsibility for the attack but the Taliban and the self-styled "Islamic State" (IS) have staged large attacks in the city in the past.The blast in Kabul's diplomatic enclave was the latest in a long line of attacks on the Afghan capital. Earlier in May, eight foreign soldiers were killed in a bomb attack claimed by IS. In March, insurgents attacked an Afghan military hospital in Kabul's diplomatic district, killing 38 people and injuring more than 70 others, namely patients, doctors and nurses.In April, Afghanistan's Taliban vowed to ramp up assaults on coalition and Afghan security forces, announcing the start of their annual spring offensive. The group said they were changing tactics for this year's operation, naming it "Operation Mansour" after the group's late leader who was killed in 2016 in a US drone strike.US President Donald Trump has yet to announce his Afghanistan policy. Afghanistan expert Michael Kugleman told DW Trump's Afghanistan policy will in many ways be quite similar to that of the Obama administration. "Like Obama, Trump will likely also express support for the idea of reconciliation between the Taliban and the Afghan government," said Kugelman.But the Taliban have shown no interest in peace talks. Afghanistan observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Islamists now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001.President Ghani said last year his country "no longer expects Pakistan to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table." Experts say Islamabad uses Taliban militants as proxy jihadists to counter Indian influence in Afghanistan. Former Pakistani Taliban spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan (pictured), was recently captured and pardoned by Islamabad after he accused India of supporting the Taliban. Apart from the Taliban, the Afghan warlords excercise massive influence in the country. Earlier in May, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul.Russia has increased its involvement in Afghanistan. Moscow had maintained an apparent distance from the Afghan conflict for many years but a new geopolitical situation is emerging in the region, and it seems that Russia has decided not to remain "neutral" in the protracted conflict. In the past few months, Russia has hosted a number of Afghanistan conferences involving China, Pakistan and Iran.In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams Despite Afghanistan not being on Germany's official list of "safe countries of origin," the federal government has nevertheless been pushing for speedier repatriations of failed asylum-seekers following last December's terror attack at a Berlin Christmas market. That attack was conducted by a failed Tunisian asylum-seeker authorities were not able to deport.The federal government has repeatedly said that "some parts" of the country are now safe and therefore suitable for Afghan returnees, although several state governments are openly challenging this position, saying none of Afghanistan can yet be classified as safe.Burkhardt said that Afghans returning from Europe find themselves in particular danger, pointing out that anyone found dressed in supposed western clothes would be immediately viewed as a collaborator with the west.Afghanistan's deteriorating security situation prompted German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel to call for peace talks with the Taliban earlier this month."One doesn't make peace with friends, rather with enemies, Gabriel told the weekly Bild am Sonntag newspaper, saying the Taliban must be negotiated with in order to find a political solution in Afghanistan.The radical Islamist movement, made up largely ethnic Pashtuns, still controls or influences nearly 40 percent of the country, proving their resiliency 16 years after a US-led invasion of the country. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2dsZy