Russia's central electoral commission said on Friday that prominent opposition leader Alexei Navalny was barred from running as a candidate in the country's presidential election next March and April."Currently, Alexei Navalny is not eligible to stand for office," the commission said in a statement, citing his five-year suspended sentence for embezzlement.Previous convictionThe panel said that under Russian law, someone who is convicted of a serious crime cannot stand for public office for 10 years after their sentence ends. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eZ8tThe 41-year-old Navalny, who has been fiercely critical of President Vladimir Putin's running of the Russian government, had declared his intention to run against the three-term leader.Read more: Norway's prime minister says Russia 'has become more unpredictable'Read more: Young Kremlin critics push for changeNavalny has complained that the case, which saw him and a business partner found guilty in 2013 of misappropriating about 16 million rubles (446,488 euros, $500,000) worth of lumber from a state-owned company, was fabricated to stop his political career from flourishing.Sentence upheldAlthough the European Court of Human Rights last year quashed the verdict, the same Russian court held a retrial earlier this year, issuing the same sentence.The lawyer-turned-political campaigner has been among the most prominent figures of Russia's opposition to President Vladimir Putin. Navalny came to prominence in 2008, when his blog exposing malpractice in Russian politics and among the country's major state-owned companies came to the public's attention. Revelations published on his blog even led to resignations, a rarity in Russian politics.In 2011, Navalny was arrested for the first time, spending 15 days in prison for his role at a rally outside the State Duma in Moscow. The parliamentary election victory for Putin's United Russia was marred by instances of ballot stuffing, reported by demonstrators on social media. Upon his release, Navalny pledged to make "extraordinary efforts" to continue the protest movement.After being re-elected president in 2012, Putin ordered Russia's Investigative Committee to launch a criminal enquiry into Nivalny's past. The following year the campaigner was charged and sentenced again, this time for five years, for alleged embezzlement in the city of Kirov. However, he was released the following day pending affirmation from a higher court. The sentence was later suspended.Despite being embroiled in legal troubles, Navalny was allowed to run in the 2013 Moscow mayoral election. A second-place finish behind Putin-ally Sergei Sobyanin was seen as an overwhelming success and galvanized the Russian opposition movement. His anti-Kremlin rhetoric has led to Navalny being banned from appearing on Russian state-owned television. That has forced him to deliver his political message over social media and his blog. His talent for public speaking, punchy use of language and humorous mockery of Putin and his loyalists has mobilized a legion of young followers.In December 2016, the opposition leader announced the formal start of his campaign to run for the Russian presidency in March 2018. However, repeated accusations of corruption, which his supporters say are politically motivated, could ultimately bar him from running for public office.In 2016, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Russia had violated Navalny's right to a fair trial in the Kirov case. Although Russia's Supreme Court overturned the five-year sentence, the verdict was sent back to the Kirov court, which in 2017 again charged Navalny with a suspended five-year sentence. Navalny's challenge against the ruling remains ongoing.In February, 2017, anti-corruption rallies across dozens of Russian cities led to the arrests of over 1,000 demonstrators, including Navalny. The protests, believed to have been the largest in the Russian capital since 2012, were spurred by a report published by Navalny linking Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev to a billion-euro property empire. The presidential candidate was released 15 days later.Navalny was assaulted and hospitalized in April 2017 after being hit in the eye with a chemical green dye, permanently damaging his right cornea. Navalny accused the Russian authorities of stopping him from seeking medical treatment abroad due to the embezzlement conviction against him. However, he was eventually permitted by the Kremlin human rights council to travel to Spain for eye surgery. Author: David Martin Navalny is currently in a police cell, serving a separate 25-day sentence for organizing an unauthorized protest on June 12, which saw more than 1,700 people detained nationwide.Navalny, a lawyer, insists he is eligible to stand for election because he is serving a suspended sentence and is not a prisoner. He says the Russian constitution allows anyone who is not in jail to stand for election.Huge campaign promised Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ek43Navalny has already opened campaign offices in several Russian cities to help him meet the required 300,000 signatures to enter the race. He is seen by many analysts as the main threat to Putin's strong grip on power.Putin, who has been either prime minister or president since 1999, is expected to stand for a fourth term as president, but has yet to confirm his plans. Current opinion polls suggest Putin would win by a wide margin despite Navalny's promise to unwind Russia's endemic corruption problem. But the opposition leader plans to harness the internet and visit less populous provinces in advance of the formal election campaign.Navalny was allowed to stand for Moscow mayor in 2013, coming second to a pro-Kremlin candidate. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eYuzmm/tj (AFP, Reuters) 