The International Olympic Committee (IOC) partnered with fast processors instead of fast food as it announced a new sponsorship deal with US chipmaker Intel on Wednesday. The agreement, which runs until 2024, will see the technology firm showcase a range of new technologies at the upcoming Summer and Winter Games, including 5G wireless technology, virtual reality, artificial intelligence and drones."We're very excited to be working with the Intel team to drive the future of the Olympic Games through cutting-edge technology," said IOC President Thomas Bach.Read more: A year out from 2018 Winter Olympics, everything is in place but the peopleSome of that technology is expected to be showcased as early as next year, when Pyeongchang in South Korea hosts the 2018 Winter Games.From VR to 5G, Intel use the Olympics as a platform to roll out their latest technologies.Announcing the deal in New York late on Wednesday, Bach and Intel Chief Executive Officer Brian Krzanich said the deal would open a host of new experiences up to athletes, fans and viewers."Through this close collaboration with the Olympic family, we will accelerate the adoption of technology for the future of sports on the world's largest athletic stage," Krzanich said. "We'll allow people online to feel like they are there."Courting younger audiencesThe IOC has been trying to make the games more technology-savvy in a bid to appeal to younger viewers. Earlier this year, it signed a similar sponsorship deal with the Chinese e-commerce firm, Alibaba. Samsung has also been a prominent Olympic partner since in 1988.Bach admitted that Olympic viewership over the past decade had trended towards older audiences."I got really concerned because then, you have to ask yourself, 'Why?'" he said in an interview with The Associated Press. "We could see from about 2012 on that it was very much a question about the platform. The youth just weren't watching as much TV as they used to in the past."Bach described the deal as a "novel step" and "a milestone in achieving our goals" of bringing more young people to the Olympics. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2WT4DIntel's Asia driveIntel has in recent years sought to move beyond its core microprocessor business, which has faced declines as the personal computing market veers towards mobile devices.Earlier this year, it acquired Mobileye, an Israeli tech firm specializing in autonomous driving technology, for just under $15 billion.Read more: IOC recommends awarding 2024 and 2028 Olympic Games simultaneouslyThe deal will also see Intel expand its reach into Asia, which will host the next three consecutive Olympic Games. After the 2018 games in Pyeongchang, Tokyo will host the 2020 Summer Games and Beijing the Winter Games in 2022. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eEFuMcDonald's pulls out of Olympics sponsorshipThe IOC's deal with Intel comes a week after it and fast-food giant McDonalds ended their 41-year sponsorship.McDonald's cited a change in the company priorities as the reason for terminating the deal. The company has been tightening costs as it invests in improving its food quality, restaurant service and online ordering to woo back diners in the United States, where intense competition has gnawed away at sales.Meanwhile, the IOC faced criticism from public health campaigners for allowing sponsors such as Coca-Cola and McDonald's to use the Games as an opportunity to market their products, which contrast with the image of healthy living that the event seeks to promote."With McDonald's, it's very easy," Bach said. "They are changing and we are changing and this is why we agreed on going different ways."US auto giant Ford saw its sales boom in 2015, which led to more jobs at its factory in Cologne. It logged an annual revenue of $19.76 billion (17.5 billion euros) in Germany, making it the largest American company here.The biggest US employer in Germany is fast-food chain McDonald's. According to the American Chamber of Commerce in Germany, McD's employs 58,000 people in its various franchises across the country.The automaker is also a job machine as a result of its jump in sales. It ranks third in the "Top 30 US Employers" sub-category, with 25,426 employees on its German payroll.Germany as a business location is generally perceived as a "good" place to invest in, according to US companies polled by AmCham Germany. Carmaker Opel - a subsidiary of General Motors - is no exception. With more than 18,000 workers and sales to the tune of $14.1 billion in 2015, Opel is number two in terms of revenue and ranks fourth in the jobs category.A point of criticism named by US companies is high energy taxes here, which they said could dent the country's competitiveness, especially when compared with Asian nations. Last year, chemicals firms and oil companies suffered disproportionately from low oil prices, causing US oil and gas giant Exxon to slip into fourth place in total sales rankings, on revenues of $9.5 billion.Online retailer Amazon profited from Exxon's slide. The e-commerce company, despite being hit by massive strikes last year, sold goods worth more than $11 billion in Germany, and boosted its local workforce to over 10,000. To put that in context: the 50 biggest US firms in Germany, taken together, reported total revenues of $170 billion in 2015.AmCham President Bernhard Mattes has called on Germany to "do more to digitize its economy." The government having at last agreed on a 'digital agenda,' he said, "action must be taken now." The fact that the world's most valuable company, Apple, ranked only tenth in sales, after taking in $5.5 billion last year, underscored his point.As in previous years, good news in 2015 came from the services industry and trade, which grew a combined 14 percent. Alongside retailer Amazon, personnel services provider ManpowerGroup made significant strides, coming in second after McDonald's on job creation with 27,000 employees.Package delivery service UPS is also a job spinner, having boosted its German workforce to 18,000 last year, ranking in fifth place. All told, the 30 biggest US employers have 330,000 Germans on their payrolls. Author: Dirk Kaufmann dm/sms (AP, Reuters)