Coalition warplanes have bombed military vehicles moving into a protected area near a garrison in Syria, US officials said. The pro-regime convoy allegedly included Syrian army troops and militants from Iran. (18.05.2017) The US-backed alliance of Arabs and Kurds has launched a long-awaited attack on the Islamic State's stronghold in Raqqa. The coalition expects a long, bloody battle for the city. (06.06.2017) Civilian casualties from US-led coalition strikes have increased sharply, according to data from the Pentagon. Rights groups have warned of increased casualties ahead of an operation to recapture Raqqa in Syria. (02.06.2017) A spokesperson for the US-led coalition force fighting the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) stated on Friday that a US F-15 fighter jet had shot down the drone on Thursday after the unmanned device dropped munitions at At Tanf (above), a "deconfliction zone" in southern Syria where coalition forces prepare for operations against IS.US Army Colonel Ryan Dillon said the drone was intended to attack the forces in the area."This clearly showed a threat even if it were a warning shot; it was something that showed a hostile intent, a hostile action and posed a threat to our forces because this drone had munitions that were still on it," Dillon said.Dillon reported the drone "hit dirt" and caused no injuries to coalition forces.CNN and Reuters cited an anonymous official who said that the drone appeared Iranian-made. Iran, along with Russia, is allied with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.An unusual move for the USThe drone was shot down the same day that coalition forces also destroyed two pro-regime vehicles that had been moving towards their position at At Tanf.The US previsouly conducted airstrikes in May on Syrian forces that had violated the "deconfliction zone" boundary. However, Dillon noted that the drone drop marked the first time that pro-Syrian regime forces had been known to attack coalition forces in the area.The military action marks an unusual operational departure for US forces. Up until now, they have focused their efforts against IS militants in both Syria and Iraq and sought to avoid engagement with troops loyal to al-Assad and the forces allied with his government. However, a statement from the US Central Command made it clear that they would not rule out further action against perceived threats from pro-regime forces, stating: "The coalition will take appropriate measures to protect our forces."Dillon reiterated the Command's statement in a tweet.The At Tanf "deconfliction zone" lies in a sparsely populated desert area near the border with Iraq and Jordan.Raqqa fighting causes UN concernMeanwhile, fighting intensified in Raqqa as the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) continued battling IS militants in the terror group's last stronghold in Syria. The US has been supporting the SDF with airstrikes.Read: Turkey wary as US-backed SDF militia target IS in RaqqaThe recent airstrikes led the United Nations to express again its concern over the status of civilians in the besieged city."Airstrikes and shelling in Syria's Ar-Raqqa city have placed thousands of civilians at risk and intensified an already desperate humanitarian situation," a statement from the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said.The statement also noted that while some 95,000 have already fled the city, an estimated 50,000-100,000 people remain in the city.UNICEF, the UN's children agency, also issued a statement expressing concern over the plight of children in Raqqa, claiming that over 25 children have been killed in the fighting.UNICEF also expressed concern for the estimated 80,000 children who have become internally displaced as a result of the fighting in Raqqa. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eQ0Fcb/jm (dpa. Reuters, AP)