As Netflix releases the fifth season of the hit series, how will Frank Underwood's dark plots and the series' unexpected political twists compare to what's happening in real life? (30.05.2017) With all eyes on Syria, attention has shifted away from the other major flashpoint in the Middle East - the peace talks between Palestine and Israel. Twenty years after the Oslo Accords, that peace is still elusive. (13.09.2013) What started as an open field for theater's biggest night became Evan Hansen's big celebration. "Dear Evan Hansen" took home six statuettes at Sunday night's Tony Awards, including best musical.The show depicts a lonely teenager, Evan Hansen, who makes up a previous friendship with a classmate who just committed suicide. Hansen eventually gains the family's acceptance until the truth is discovered.Song writers Benj Pasek and Justin Paul won best original score for their work on the musical.Pasek and Paul also won an Oscar earlier this year for writing the lyrics to film musical "La La Land."Ben Platt, who plays the anxious Hansen, won best performance by an actor in a leading role in a musical. Platt also starred in the "Pitch Perfect" movies and "The Book of Mormon."Oslo best play"Oslo" won the best play award. The play goes through the 1993 meetings between Israeli and Palestinian diplomats, which led to the Oslo Accords and handshake between Israel Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) Chairman Yasser Arafat. Actor Michael Aronov won the Tony for best actor in a featured role in the play. "Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812" had 12 nominations, which was more than any other Broadway production. It came away with two Tony awards for best set and lighting. Host Kevin Spacey also took part in the acts Dolly may never go away againThe classic "Hello, Dolly!" came back to Broadway to thunderous applause. The musical won four Tonys, including best musical revivla and Bette Midler taking home her first statuette as best actress in a musical.Midler said she had a "very tough schedule" but the experience had been "life-affirming and life-changing.""It's more than I deserve," said Midler. Kevin Spacey hosted the show. A two time Oscar winner, Spacey was involved in some of the musical numbers and did impressions. He won a Tony Award in 1991 for his role in "Lost in Yonkers." Spacey currently plays ruthless politician Frank Underwood in the Netflix series "House of Cards."James Earl Jones, most well known for the voice of Darth Vader from the "Star Wars" franchise, received a lifetime achievement award.kbd/jm (AP, dpa, Reuters)