German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Tuesday called on the US and European Union to resume talks on a free trade agreement after the Trump administration gave the clearest signal yet that it was willing relaunch negotiations on such an accord.Speaking at an economic symposium hosted by her Christian Democratic Union (CDU) party in Berlin, Merkel told lawmakers that "we should resume work on a trade agreement between the EU and the United States," adding that "the multitude of problems that arise ... can only be dealt with in structured trade negotiations with each other."Read more: Opinion: Germany's trade surplus is made in USThe chancellor's comments came just after Wilbur Ross, the US commerce secretary, addressed the audience of delegates via video-link, telling them US President Donald Trump was receptive for talks on what is known on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) to resume.US President Donald Trump has offered both candid praise and unabashed criticism of Germany and its policies. From calling German Chancellor Angela Merkel as "possibly the greatest world leader" to describing her open-door refugee policy as a "catastrophic mistake," here are his most memorable quotes regarding Germany."Germany's like sitting back silent, collecting money and making a fortune with probably the greatest leader in the world today, Merkel," Trump said in a 2015 interview with US news magazine Time."The Germans are bad, very bad ... Look at the millions of cars they sell in the US. Terrible. We'll stop that," Trump said during a NATO leaders summit, according to German news magazine Der Spiegel, which cited sources at the alliance's meeting."As far as wiretapping, I guess, by - you know - [the Obama] administration, at least we have something in common, perhaps," Trump said in March during a press conference with Merkel. He was referring to his unproven allegations that ex-President Barack Obama tapped his phone. There was widespread anger in Germany in 2013 when it was revealed the US National Security Agency tapped Merkel's phone."I think she made one very catastrophic mistake and that was taking all of these illegals (sic), you know taking all of the people from wherever they come from," Trump said in a joint interview published by German daily Bild and British newspaper The Times, referring to Merkel's open-door policy for refugees fleeing war and persecution."Despite what you have heard from the fake news, I had a great meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Nevertheless, Germany owes vast sums of money to NATO and the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany," Trump said in a two-tweet statement after meeting with Merkel for the first time in March. Author: Lewis Sanders IV The US president, who was elected to White House after campaigning on a protectionist platform, has recently set his sights on tackling America's trade imbalance. Trump has expressed frustration with Germany, following reports that its trade surplus over the US last year amounted to some $65 billion (57 billion euros).During last month's NATO summit in Brussels, Trump is reported to have told leaders, "The Germans are bad, very bad ... Look at the millions of cars they sell in the US. Terrible. We'll stop that."However, speaking just after Ross on Tuesday, Merkel used her speech to stress that the US was a direct benefactor of German trade, saying that German investments in the US were a major jobs creator for the country. "The fact that BMW's biggest car factory is not in Germany but in the US must also be kept in mind when considering trade balances," she said.Read more: German economy is responsible for 4.8 million jobs in the EUClear signalUS Commerce Secretary Ross had hinted last month in an interview with US media that the Trump administration would be "open" to resuming talks on a free trade pact with the EU.However, his speech on Tuesday was the clearest signal yet that talks could resume. "I stand before you tonight to say this in a more explicit fashion: we, as major trading partners of each other, should have a free trade agreement," Ross said. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fSC8Initial talks on creating a free trade area on both sides of the Atlantic had been ongoing for years, but came to a halt following Trump's election to the White House.Trump campaigned on a protectionist platform and on a repeated mantra of "America first." One of his first acts as president was to withdraw the US from a similar free trade deal with the Asia-Pacific region.European lawmakers also assumed that the TTIP deal was off the table under a Trump presidency.However, Ross told German lawmakers that the Trump administration sees "little point in negotiating treaties that will not be honored" and that the US has in Europe "a good counterparty with whom we have had, and will continue to have, productive discussions that benefit all."dm/gsw (AP, Reuters, dpa, AFP)