Nikki Haley, US ambassador to the UN, on Thursday urged international action to address the political crisis unfolding in Venezuela after Washington-backed regional efforts failed to gain traction."The tragic situation in Venezuela calls out for action," Haley said in a statement following a three-day meeting of the Organization of American States (OAS). "The Venezuelan people are starving while their government tramples their democracy."Read more: Venezuela: Grabbing the bull by the hornsAt the meeting, the US-backed draft resolution to send regional mediators to Venezuela fell short of the 23 votes needed for adoption."The international community must act even if the UN Human Rights Council and the Organization of American States are blocked from doing so," Haley said, referring to Venezuela's membership in the council.Since April, more than 74 people have been killed and hundreds more injured and detained during mass anti-government demonstrations.Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands have taken to the streets in the weeks since to call for new elections. They show no signs of stopping.As of March, Venezuela's inflation rate surpassed 220 percent, according to the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics. The country's largest bill - the 100 bolivar note - was worth just $0.04 at the end of last year. Shopping trips now require stacks, or even bags, of cash to buy the bare necessities.An estimated 80 percent of food items and other basics were in short supply by last year. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally can enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement.In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen otherwise only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever.Electricity blackouts and fuel shortages have also driven Venezuelans to desperation. Despite Venezuela's possession of the world's largest oil reserves, drivers face long lines at the gas pump. A 50-percent collapse in oil prices in 2014 devastated the oil-dependent economy. In 2013, revenues were $80 billion. That figure dropped to $20 billion by 2016, according to IMF figures.Lower poverty rates, better education and health, and economic growth: These are all part of the legacy of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Equally part of the socialist's legacy was mismanagement. Not only did he fail to keep the state oil company up to date under increased government control, but his government also overspent despite a drop in oil production after 2006.Chavez's hand-picked successor, Nicolas Maduro, has been in office for four years and has two more to go. The opposition center-right coalition, which has controlled the National Assembly since 2015, has accused him of "abandoning his post" by failing to stem the economic devastation. It has also denounced him for rights abuses.The most recent example of Maduro's rights abuses was to silence opposition leader, Henrique Capriles, pictured above. In early April, Capriles was banned from seeking public office for 15 years due to "administrative irregularities" in his role as a governor. Capriles had been at the forefront of demands for a referendum on Maduro. The ban further inflamed tensions with protesters.Aside from protests, the opposition collected 2 million signatures for a referendum last year, roughly 10 times the number required. And in a move against the Supreme Court - and in lieu of impeachment hearings - it also held a symbolic trial for Maduro. Numerous attempts to stymie its attempts to pressure the government have only emboldened these lawmakers.Since the outbreak of explosive protests in April, at least 60 people have died and a further 1,000 have been injured. Rights campaigners say police have arrested roughly 3,000 people. Meanwhile, the international community looks on with concern. The Organization for American States, which has openly opposed Maduro, plans to reconvene in June to discuss intervening in the crisis. Author: Kathleen Schuster 'Useless and unnecessary'Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro has attempted to quell the protests and rally support by describing them as a US-led conspiracy to dethrone him.Outgoing Foreign Minister Delcy Rodriguez, who stepped down from her position on Wednesday to run for a seat in Venezuela's controversial new congress, hit back at the US efforts, saying they were a direct interference in the country's internal affairs."The 'contact group' you're proposing is completely useless and unnecessary," Rodriguez said. "The only way you could impose it would be to send in your Marines - who would meet with a crushing response from Venezuela if they dared make such a misstep."Amid chronic shortages of food and medicine, Maduro's support has crashed even further after announcing he would assemble a group of citizens to rewrite the constitution, a move his critics said aims to undermine the rule of law and extend his hold on power. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fDfUls/cmk (AP, AFP)