Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydlo was heavily criticized on Wednesday for using an appearance at the former Auschwitz-Birkenau Nazi German death camp to seemingly tout her anti-migrant policies."In our troubled times, Auschwitz is a great lesson that everything must be done to defend the safety and the lives of citizens," Szydlo said at a ceremony marking the 77th anniversary of the Nazis' first transport of Polish prisoners to the camp.Her comment was also posted on Twitter by her right-wing populist Law and Justice party, but deleted soon after.The comment was widely understood to be a defense of her government's refusal to accept refugees as part of a European Union resettlement plan, a position that prompted the European Commission to launch legal action this week against her government as well as those of the Czech Republic and Hungary. Read: Poland openly refuses to accept refugeesRead: EU launches legal case against three countries over refugee deal Exploiting the cruelty of Auschwitz "Such words at such a place should never be spoken by a Polish prime minister," Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council and the former Polish prime minister, said on Twitter in Polish. Tusk and Szydlo are fierce political rivals.Polish government spokesman Rafal Bochenek had just a day earlier claimed that the refugee relocation plan posed a security "threat" to EU members, echoing Szydlo's previous linking of refugees and migrants with terror attacks in Europe.Katarzyna Lubnauer, head of the centrist Nowoczesna (Modern) parliamentary caucus, accused Szydlo of "exploiting the cruelty of Auschwitz to make Poles fear refugees."Former Defense Minister Tomasz Siemoniak said in a tweet that Szydlo's remarks were a "discredit."Szydlo's comment at Auschwitz caused an uproar on Polish social media as leading journalists and pundits questioned her motives."Szydlo showed today that she has no problems using both living Arabs and dead Jews in her primitive propaganda," said Tomasz Lis, the editor of the Polish version of Newsweek."Auschwitz must remind us of the need to defend universal human rights, not closing borders to refugees!" said Rafal Pankowski, the head of Never Again, an organization that fights neo-Nazism and other forms of extremism.Taken out of contextIn response government spokesman Bochenek accused Szydlo's critics of taking her comment, made during a speech honoring Auschwitz prisoners, out of context. "If someone wants to, they will find bad intentions in any comment. I propose listening to the entire speech," Bochenek said on Twitter.Read: Why one of Auschwitz's last remaining survivors wrote a memoir decades laterRead: Pope Francis defends his use of term 'concentration camps' for migrant housingIn the speech, Szydlo said it was a great task for politicians to make sure that "such terrible events as those that took place in Auschwitz and other places of martyrdom never happen again."Can something horrible also be beautiful? As seen in the Berlin exhibition "Art from the Holocaust: 100 Works from the Yad Vashem Collection," a number of artists managed to document life in Nazi concentration camps and ghettos and create great art even during one of humanity's greatest tragedies. Pictured: "A Street in d Ghetto" by Josef Kowner, who survived the Holocaust.For the first time, 100 works from the Yad Vashem memorial center in Israel are on display at the German Historical Museum in Berlin. Of the 50 artists included, 24 were murdered by the Nazis. Among the victims is prominent artist Felix Nussbaum, who was killed at Auschwitz in 1944. His famous painting, "The Refugee," was painted in 1939 in Brussels and reveals the desperation of exile.Works by Charlotte Salomon have been shown elsewhere in Germany as well. In a collection of over 700 individual works, titled "Life? or Theater?: A Song-play," Salomon explored her own tragic life story as a Jew in Berlin. In 1943, she was deported from southern France, where she had found exile, to Auschwitz, where she was murdered immediately upon arrival. She was pregnant at the time.Nelly Toll's story is less well known. She and her mother survived the Holocaust in what was then the Polish city of Lw w because they were hidden by Christian friends. Locked in her room, Toll drew artworks including this gouache, "Girls in the Field." Now 81, the artist has traveled from her home in the United States to attend the opening of the Berlin exhibition.Leo Breuer from Bonn fought for the German Kaiser in World War I. In 1934, one year after Hitler rose to power, he immigrated to The Hague and then to Brussels, where he was able to work as a painter and exhibit his work. In 1940, he was taken to the St. Cyprien internment camp in France, and then to the camp in Gurs, where he documented his time there in water colors. Breuer died in 1975 in Bonn.In Gurs, Leo Breuer created stage designs for the camp cabaret together with photographer and artist Karl Robert Bodek. The two also worked together on greeting cards and other pieces of art - until 1941. That's when Bodek was deported to the camp in Les Milles near Aix-en-Provence and then to Drancy and finally to Auschwitz, where he was murdered in 1942.Bed ich Fritta headed the office at the Theresienstadt concentration camp where official propaganda material was produced. But Fritta and his colleagues also secretly drew images of the horrors of the Nazi ghettos. In 1944, their subversion was discovered. Fritta died in Auschwitz. After Theresienstadt was liberated, 200 of his works were found hidden in the walls and buried in the ground.Leo Haas helped Fritta create countless works depicting life in the concentration camp. In Sachsenhausen, he was ordered to create counterfeit bills in the currencies of the Allies ("Operation Bernhard"). He survived and later adopted Tom , Fritta's son. After the war, Haas found 400 of his hidden works in Theresienstadt.Pavel Fantl belonged to the artists' circle at Theresienstadt as well. As a medical doctor he also ran the typhus clinic in the camp. Like Fritta, his cover was also blown and he was tortured and sent to Auschwitz. In January 1945, he was shot and killed during a death march. Around 80 of his drawings were smuggled out of Theresienstadt.Jacob Lipschitz taught at the art institute in Vilnius before the war. In 1941, he was forced to move to the ghetto in Kaunus, where he joined a group of artists that secretly documented life there. Lipschitz died in March 1945 in the Kaufering concentration camp. After the war, his wife and daughter went back to the Kaunus ghetto and recovered the pictures he had hidden in a cemetery.The images in the exhibition, which runs through April 3 in Berlin's German Historical Museum, document the inconsolability and brutality of life in Nazi camps. But they also show how artists managed to create a world apart from the horrific deeds of their captors. Pictured is Moritz M ller's "Roofs in Winter." Author: Sarah Judith Hofmann / kbm A million Jews killedPoland, Hungary and the Czech Republic all refused to comply with an EU program to relocate 160,000 migrants from frontline migrant crisis states Italy and Greece. The EU set up the plan in 2015, when migration from Africa and Middle East - in large part people fleeing Syria's civil war - was at its peak.The program faces strong resistance in Poland, which Szydlo's government has used to gain domestic support.Nazi Germany built the Auschwitz death camp on occupied Polish territory during World War II.Estimates vary, but more than a million people, mainly European Jews, are thought to have been gassed, shot or hanged at the camp, or to have died of neglect, starvation or disease during the Holocaust, before the Soviet Red Army entered its gates in January 1945.aw/msh (AFP, AP, Reuters, dpa)