Trump unleashed his attack on Thursday, apparently in response to comments by television host Mika Brzezinski on the left-leaning network MSNBC.Ironically, it came after Brzezinski had attacked Trump for his "bullying" Twitter tirades.During the "Morning Joe" show, Brzezinski said that if an executive at NBC, MSNBC's parent company, "started tweeting wildly about people's appearances, bullying people that person would be thrown out. There would be concerns that the person who runs the company is out of his mind."Joseph Nye: Trump's tweets harm US soft powerTrump's response was aimed at both Mika Brzezinski and her co-host Joe Scarborough. Trump hurled a rapid-fire series of insults in just one Tweet, accusing Brzezinski of having a "low IQ," being "crazy" and "bleeding badly from a face-lift" while on a visit to his Mar-a-Lago golf resort. Trump called Scarborough a "psycho."Many senior Republicans sought to distance themselves from the tweets."Obviously I don't see that as an appropriate comment," said Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan."The president's tweets today don't help our political or national discourse and do not provide a positive role model for our national dialogue," said Republican Senator James Lankford.'Please just stop'One of Trump's more frequent Republican critics, Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, urged the president to restrain himself. "Please just stop. This isn't normal and it's beneath the dignity of your office."Longtime Republican Senator Lindsey Graham said the tweets were "beneath the office" of president and that they represent "what is wrong with American politics."There were also responses on Twitter, including one from Jeb Bush, Trump's rival for the White House nomination last year.However, White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders defended the president, saying he was "pushing back against people who have attacked him day after day after day. Where is the outrage on that?"Brzezinski and Scarborough, who are engaged, have known Trump for years and interviewed him several times during his presidential campaign. They have, however, been highly critical of Trump since he took office. In addition to his attacks on the mainstream media, Trump has has singled out individual journalists before, including a notorious invective against former Fox News and current NBC journalist Megyn Kelly.The president has also made numerous statements about women that have been widely criticized as inappropriate, misogynist, sexist, and offensive to women. Initial estimates suggest that at least 500,000 participants took to the streets in Washington, DC. March organizers said that the point of the protest was not only to show opposition to newly sworn-in President Trump, but as a general call for the rights of women and other minorities to be respected.Brazilian protesters joined hands in the capital Brasilia. More than 600 solidarity events were held around the world, on every continent including Antarctica, where a group of scientists held their own small demonstration on a research vessel.A family at a march in Frankfurt wore the "pussy hats" that many march participants around the world had for the occassion. The hats were meant as a slight to misogynistic comments President Trump made in 2005 that surfaced during the election campaign.Many slogans at the protests had to do with President Trump's promise to build a wall on the border between the US and Mexico. At a protest in Kenyan capital of Nairobi, supporters demanded equality and tolerance.At least 2,000 people took part in the Paris march. Many demonstrators across Europe said they were not only protesting Trump, but the rise of the far-right across the continent as French elections loom in March.Much has been made of the low turnout numbers at President Trump's inauguration. People took to social media to show empty subway trains in Washington on inauguration day, but transport officials in the US capital said Saturday was the fifth busiest day in the Metro's history.Midtown Manhattan flooded with protestors by Saturday afternoon. With large demonstrations taking place in most major US cities, some academics were already predicting that it would be the largest protest in the country's history.Activists in Mexico City marched towards the US embassy. One of the first of Donald Trump's many campaign statements that sparked controversy was the allegations that most Mexican immigrants to the US were criminals.