The Bat-Signal is set to shine above Los Angeles, following the death of Adam West last week.The legendary actor had a long career and died at the age of 88, but remained forever marked by the time he spent under the cowl.West initially resented his Batman typecasting, but he later embraced the iconic and uplifting roleIn the fictional city of Gotham, where playboy-turned-superhero Bruce Wayne fights crime as his alter ego Batman, the signal means people need their costumed hero.Police call on Batman by turning a powerful spotlight on the cloudy sky, projecting the shadow of the Batman logo above the skyline.Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti announced the tribute to West on Twitter, inviting the public to join the event at city hall.In place of Gotham's Commissioner James Gordon, the event will be attended by Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck.DC Comics, the company that owns the characters of Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman and a whole range of other superheroes, also urged the "good citizens of Los Angeles" to join, inviting them to "don their bat-suits and trusty utility belts in honor of West's signature role as the true crime fighter.""If fans are not able to join in the tribute Thursday night, the West family encourages Adam's 'old chums' to make a donation to the Adam West Memorial Fund," set up to fight cancer in children, the company added.West's portrayal of Batman as a friendly and campy character is distinctly different from later takes on the superhero, which show him as tortured and brooding. In contrast to the "Dark Knight" moniker, often used to describe the modern character of Batman, West preferred to be seen as the "Bright Knight" who aspired to positivity.In the new movie featuring both Batman and Superman, the two superheroes have to set their differences aside and join forces with Wonder Woman to save the world - as the tradition of the genre has long established. The three characters were launched by DC Comics, a publisher founded in 1934.He's the grandfather of all superheroes: Superman was created in 1933 by the two cartoonists Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster. Superman's superpowers include super-speed, super-strength, super-vision, super-hearing, super-breath, flight, and basically invulnerability - although Kryptonite blocks his powers. That's because he comes from planet Krypton. He can count on the Sun to magnify his abilities.She first appeared in Superman comics, and got her own series in 1959. Supergirl has the same powers and abilities as her cousin. The 1984 film "Supergirl," starring Helen Slater, was a box office flop. A new TV series was created in 2015 and just started airing in Germany. Incidentally, Helen Slater plays the role of Supergirl's adoptive mother in the show.Peter Parker was bitten by a radioactive spider and that gave him the super powers that allow him to be Spider-Man. He can stick to walls and sense danger before everyone else. He can fire cobwebs to block his opponents. He neglects his girlfriend, as his great feeling of responsibility prevails over everything else. Spider-Man was created in 1962 and is still the most famous Marvel character.When scientist Bruce Banner accidentally gets exposed to massive amounts of gamma radiation, something unusual happens to him. When he gets angry, he turns into a big green monster called the Hulk. Hulk is not very smart, but extremely strong. Once Banner learns to control the Hulk, he becomes a useful superhero.In 1941, Captain America was created as a patriotic super-soldier fighting against the Nazis. He's a fighting machine whose only weapon is a near-indestructible shield. Thanks to a serum developed by the military, Cap's strength, endurance and reflexes are amplified. Unfortunately, the Nazis also gain access to the super-serum As a child, Bruce Wayne witnessed the murder of his parents. The traumatizing experience leads him to take on the life mission of eliminating crime from his home town, Gotham City, as Batman. His power is based on hard training, intelligence and technology. He took on a bat costume to inspire fear. His main weapon is the Batmobile, a car that can basically do everything - except fly.She started out as Batman's adversary, but they have sometimes worked together - and had quite a few romantic encounters. The sexy Catwoman has appeared in several films, embodied by famous actresses. Michelle Pfeiffer portrayed her in 1992, Halle Berry (pictured) in 2004, and Anne Hattaway in "The Dark Knight Rises," in 2012.Matt Murdock looses his eyesight after getting blinded by a radioactive liquid during an accident. This unusually heightens his remaining senses - he can even hear through walls. He becomes a successful lawyer and takes on a second identity as superhero Daredevil. That's how he can fight criminals that manage to find protection under the law during the day.The son of a witch and a demon, Hellboy was born in another dimension: Hell. Born in flames, he is naturally fire resistant, super strong, and virtually invulnerable. As a weapon, he uses a special revolver and different items disliked by paranormal forces, such as holy water, garlic and silver. He hunts demons and saves humanity as it faces the Apocalypse.As Wade Wilson learns he has cancer, he puts himself through a risky experiment that cures him, but also disfigures him. Wade becomes Deadpool, who seeks revenge against his tormentors. This antihero is brutal, psychotic and has a dark sense of humor. The 2016 film based on the character is one the world's biggest box office hits.The Watchmen are not a typical crew of superheroes either. The DC comics "Watchmen" landed on "Time" magazine's list of 100 best novels published in English between 1923 and 2005. A film adaptation came in 2009, where one member of the crew gets murdered and the rest of the group search for the perpetrators, uncovering a conspiracy through their investigation.They are young mutants with supernatural abilities. Wolverine (pictured) has a metal-reinforced skeleton and can extend steel claws. Other mutants in the team can teleport, freeze their surroundings, or destroy enemies with their eyes. The strongest mutant is Magneto, but he also has served as a supervillain chased by the X-Men.The Fantastic Four are a group of heroes with different skills acquired by traveling to outer space: Reed, or Mister Fantastic, is extremely flexible; Susan, the Invisible Woman, can become invisible and create force fields; her brother Johnny, the Human Torch, can control fire and fly; and Ben, the Thing, is the stone muscleman. Together they save humanity.Marvel superheroes unite! Along with Captain America and Hulk, this team also includes Black Widow, who's a spy; Iron Man, who has a powered armor; and Thor, whose hammer can generate thunder and lightning. Many other Marvel characters have appeared in the "Avengers" comics since 1963. The movies featuring the team are among the world's top grossing blockbusters. Author: Silke W nsch / eg dj/cmk (AP, dpa)