The nationalist prime minister Shinzo Abe is accused of pressuring bureaucrats to fund a university program run by a close friend. Documents that appear to verify the accusations are being called into question by Abe. (10.06.2017) The suspect was found after a raid on a building used by radicals in Hiroshima. He did not give his name but was identified after a DNA test. It was the longest time a suspect was on the run in Japanese history. (08.06.2017) A series of robberies and smuggling cases in southern Japan suggest that the region has become a hotbed of underworld activity surrounding the lucrative gold trade. Julian Ryall reports. (05.06.2017) Aging Emperor Akihito would be the first Japanese monarch to abdicate in almost 200 years. The new bill also calls on lawmakers to consider allowing women to play a greater role in the royal family. (02.06.2017) Tokyo's famously congested public transport system will face added pressure during the games, so the government is pushing firms to break with tradition and allow employees to work from home. Julian Ryall reports. (24.04.2017) Japan's capital city is fuming over an anti-smoking bill ahead of the 2020 Olympics. Previous Olympic host cities have passed anti-smoking measures, and the IOC and WHO are hoping for the same in Tokyo. (02.05.2017) Bleary-eyed Japanese upper-house lawmakers passed the bill on Thursday morning, after a night of stalled efforts to block the legislation in its tracks.A sizable crowd had assembled the previous day to protest outside parliament.The bill, which criminalizes the planning of 277 different types of crime, was drawn up by the government, which says it is necessary to prevent terrorism ahead of the 2020 Olympic Games. Ruling politicians also say they need the change to comply with a UN treaty on organized crime."We will uphold the law in an appropriate and effective way to protect people's lives," Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told journalists after the legislation was passed.Japan's more powerful lower house passed the bill last month.Tokyo struggles with smoking ban ahead of OlympicsJapan to test-drive teleworking ahead of 2020 OlympicsMore surveillance powersThe measures would allow a widening of scope for legal wiretapping, with courts more likely to grant police powers for surveillance. The law envisages sentences of up to five years for plotting crimes.However, the Japan Federation of Bar Associations and several academics say that some of the offenses on the list have nothing to do with terrorism or organized crime.They include sit-ins to protest against building projects, as well as the copying of copyrighted music.Mushroom hunting?Japan's justice minister was even mocked by opponents of the law when he conceded that it could hypothetically target mushroom hunting - if that were used to fund terrorism.Opposition Democratic Party leader Renho, who goes by only one name, made a statement that deemed the legislation "brutal" and a violation of free thought. He also claimed the bill had been rushed through without sensible debate.US surveillance whistleblower Edward Snowden has criticized the law, as has Joseph Cannataci, the UN special rapporteur on the right to privacy.The law in a previous draft was even wider, encompassing some 600 criminal offenses that were seemingly unrelated to crime syndicates or terrorism.rc/tj (AFP, AP Reuters)