Irmela Mensah-Schramm removes Nazi and other far-right symbols from public spaces in German cities. But the 70-year-old Berlin resident is in trouble after a court charged her with damaging public property. (01.06.2017) Polish Army Captain Witold Pilecki "volunteered" to get himself arrested so he could learn what was happening in the Auschwitz death camp. While incarcerated, he smuggled out reports to the Polish government in exile. (14.05.2017) Scientists have found a high rate of tumors in flatfish in the Baltic Sea that could be linked to old munitions. Weaponry dumped in the sea at the end of World War II is leaching chemicals toxic to fish - and people. (17.05.2017) The German army has been rocked by widening revelations about far-right sympathizers in its ranks and a lingering devotion to the Nazi-era Wehrmacht. So how does the Bundeswehr deal with its history? (16.05.2017) The gate will be displayed in a museum on the grounds of the former Nazi concentration camp in Dachau. It was stolen under mysterious circumstances in 2014 and resurfaced in December after an anonymous tip. (22.02.2017) For decades, the bells at Herxheim am Berg's oldest church have been ringing in Christmas, Easter and confirmation services. The recent revelation that one of those chimes comes from a Nazi-era relic is making some in the area, situated in the western state of Rhineland-Palatinate, very uncomfortable.The bronze bell in question, which is over 80 years old, is inscribed with a swastika and the phrase: "Everything for the Fatherland - Adolf Hitler."The town website details the history of St. Jacob's Church, from it's founding in 1014 to the celebration of its 1,000th anniversary in 2014.One timeline entry notes that in August 1934, the village school teacher set fire to the church and that by December of the same year, three new bells were placed in the tower.The "Hitler bell" was one of them, but the website doesn't mention the swastika or the Nazi inscription. Considering that the bell is ensconced behind thick stone in the belfry, it's likely that visitors to the town are completely unaware of its presence.Backlash over continued useA former organist at the church, Sigrid Peters, only recently learned of the bell's inscription and is calling for it to be switched off immediately.The 'Hitler bell' is ensconced behind thick stone in the tower at St. Jacob's Church"It can't happen that a baby is baptized and a bell with the words 'everything for the Fatherland' is chiming," she told news agency DPA.She was also disturbed by the fact that numerous couples around the state of Rhineland-Palatinate come to the picturesque church to get married every year. "They don't know at all" about the bell, Peters said.Bell 'wasn't a problem before'The Mayor of Herxheim am Berg, Ronald Becker, told DW that the existence of the bell is common knowledge around the village.According to Becker, "it was already widely known" among local residents that a bell bearing the name "Adolf Hitler" existed within the stone steeple of the town's ancient church.Becker says he doesn't see a problem with the bell and has the 'backing of the town'Becker, who has been mayor for three years, was concise when asked whether or not the bell was problematic."There wasn't a problem before and there won't be a problem with it in the future, either," he said.Becker noted that bell was a "historic relic," but that it was important to understand and respect the history surrounding it.The mayor also dismissed some proposed solutions to classify the bell as a WWII memorial or to install a plaque, informing visitors of the Nazi-inscribed bell's presence.He said he doesn't want Herxheim am Berg to become "a cult site" where people - most likely of the far-wing persuasion - visit the church for the "wrong reasons."Since this particular bell doesn't belong to the church, but rather to the municipality of Herxheim am Berg, politics will ultimately decide the bell's future. And Becker sees no need to remove it."I have the backing of the town," he explained, adding that Herxheim am Berg's nearly 800 residents "support me.""It is closed in the church tower and it will remain so," Becker said.The villa on Berlin's Wannsee lake was pivotal in planning the Holocaust. 15 members of the Nazi government and the SS Schutzstaffel met here on January 20, 1942 to plan what became known as the "Final Solution," the deportation and extermination of all Jews in German-occupied territory. In 1992, the villa where the Wannsee Conference was held was turned into a memorial and museum.The Nazi regime opened the first concentration camp in Dauchau not far from Munich. Just a few weeks after Adolf Hitler came to power it was used by the paramilitary SS "Schutzstaffel" to imprison, torture and kill political opponents to the regime. Dachau also served as a prototype and model for the other Nazi camps that followed.Nuremberg hosted the biggest Nazi party propaganda rallies from 1933 until the start of the Second World War. The annual Nazi party congress as well as rallies with as many as 200,000 participants took place on the 11-km (4.25 square miles) area. Today, the unfinished Congress Hall building serves as a documentation center and a museum.The Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Lower Saxony was initially established as a prisoner of war camp before becoming a concentration camp. Prisoners too sick to work were brought here from other concentration camps, so many also died of disease. One of the 50,000 killed here was Anne Frank, a Jewish girl who gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published.The Bendlerblock building in Berlin was the headquarters of a military resistance group. On July 20, 1944, a group of Wehrmacht officers around Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg carried out an assassination attempt on Adolf Hitler that failed. The leaders of the conspiracy were summarily shot the same night in the courtyard of the Bendlerblock, which is today the German Resistance Memorial Center.From 1941 people with physical and mental disabilities were killed at a psychiatric hospital in Hadamar in Hesse. Declared "undesirables" by the Nazis, some 15,000 people were murdered here by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide or by being injected with lethal drug overdoses. Across Germany some 70,000 were killed as part of the Nazi-euthanasia program. Today Hadamar is a memorial to those victims.Located next to the Brandenburg Gate, Berlin's Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe was inaugurated sixty years after the end of World War II on May 10, 2005, and opened to the public two days later. Architect Peter Eisenman created a field with 2,711 concrete slabs. An attached underground "Place of Information" holds the names of all known Jewish Holocaust victims.Not too far from the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, another concrete memorial honors the thousands of homosexuals persecuted by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945. The four-meter high monument, which has a window showing alternately a film of two men or two women kissing, was inaugurated in Berlin's Tiergarten on May 27, 2008.Opposite the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin, a park inaugurated in 2012 serves as a memorial to the 500,000 Sinti and Roma people killed by the Nazi regime. Around a memorial pool the poem "Auschwitz" by Roma poet Santino Spinelli is written in English, Germany and Romani: "gaunt face, dead eyes, cold lips, quiet, a broken heart, out of breath, without words, no tears."In the 1990s, the artist Gunther Demnig began a project to confront Germany's Nazi past. Brass-covered concrete cubes were placed in front of the former houses of Nazi victims, providing details on the person as well as the dates of deportation and death, if known. More than 45,000 "Stolpersteine" have been laid in 18 countries in Europe - it's the world's largest decentralized Holocaust memorial.Right next to the "F hrerbau" where Adolf Hitler had his office, the headquarters of the Nazi Party in Germany were based in the "Brown House" in Munich. A white cube now occupies its former location. A new "Documentation Center for the History of National Socialism" opened on April 30, 2015, 70 years after the liberation of the Nazi regime, uncovering further dark chapters of history. Author: Max Zander, Ille Simon