China's Ministry of Defense on Monday announced that the Chinese Navy's "Liaoning" aircraft carrier had left its home port of Qingdao on Saturday for routine maneuvers.Accompanied by two destroyers and a naval frigate, and equipped with multiple fighter jets and helicopters, the ports of call for the Liaoning have not been officially announced.But there are unofficial reports in the Chinese press that the Liaoning is heading for Hong Kong to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the territory being handed back to China from Great Britain.Chinese President Xi Jinping will also reportedly be in Hong Kong at the beginning of July for the reunification celebration, which is a strong signal that China's aircraft carrier will be there to accompany his visit. Local media are even reporting that the ship will be open to visitors, in a public show of Chinese military advancement.But on Taiwan, there is less concern for where the Liaoning is headed as to the route the armada is taking. Taiwan's Defense Ministry in Taipei is concerned that, if en route to Hong Kong, the Liaoning carrier group will set sail in a loop around Taiwan island - an ostensible demonstration of military power and Chinese sovereignty over the breakaway province. According to unofficial convention, the armada should sail through the Strait of Taiwan, through the center of the strait, and nearer to the coast of Mainland China.But in Beijing, there currently seems to be a renewed will to unite renegade Taiwan with China."The defense ministry will continuously follow the movements of the communist forces and react correspondingly," said a statement from Taipei."It is clearly a military threat from China," Jung-Shian Li, a professor at National Cheng Kung University in Taiwan, told DW. "But because of the election of the China-critical Tsai Ing-wen as president, the Taiwanese have unequivocally made a statement that we will not be deterred."An island unto itself Taiwan's determination for independence from Mainland China comes at a price. The majority of the international community only recognizes the People's Republic of China (PRC). Taiwan, officially called the "Republic of China (ROC)," is diplomatically isolated and considers its existence threatened by the territorial ambitions of the PRC.Professor Li has experienced first hand the consequences of Taiwan's international isolation. When flying to Israel from Germany recently, Li said he was forced to convince airline employees that he was not a citizen of the PRC, which requires a visa for Israel. As a Taiwanese, he is allowed to travel on his passport.Citizens of Taiwan can travel visa-free to 124 countries, although Taiwan is only officially recognized by 20 The source of the confusion was Li's passport, which contains Taiwan's official name, the "Republic of China." Strangely, Taiwan is recognized by only 20 countries worldwide, but the Taiwanese passport allows citizens to travel visa-free to 124 countries."Isn't that ludicrous?" said Li. "Taiwan has a free and democratic society like the West and is a regional economic power with 23 million people. And even though many countries don't recognize its existence, they still allow Taiwanese to travel visa free."'One China'In 2005, Beijing passed the so-called "anti-secession law," which permitted the PRC to use "non-peaceful" means to prevent Taiwan from declaring independence.And since the China-critical Tsai Ing-wen from the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) was elected in 2016, China has been increasing pressure.Read: Taiwan 'will not bow' to Beijing on sovereignty issue, says PresidentWithin 12 months, Taiwan has lost three diplomatic partners to China - and more are assumed to follow. In 2017, Taiwan's participation at the general assembly of the World Health Organization (WHO) was reportedly barred after protest from China. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ee5hHong Kong as a bad example Few people in Taiwan want reunification with Mainland China under the "one country, two systems" model like in Hong Kong and Taiwanese experts see little chance for implementation of the system.Lai Yueqian, a professor at Shijian University in Taiwan, told DW that Taiwan shouldn't be compared to Hong Kong or Macao."Hong Kong and Macao were subordinate administrative units of China from the beginning and then were Portuguese and British colonies," he said, adding that Taiwan and China have equal status. Pro-China and Pro-democracy protesters clash in Hong Kong in 2014In Taiwan, there is close attention paid to problems with civil society in Hong Kong. Examples include the postponement of direct elections of parliament and officials or the harassment of democracy supporters and the disappearances of free thinkers and government critics who then "appear" on the Mainland. Ka-Lam Cheng is a student from Hong Kong studying in Taiwan. She told DW that China has interfered with Hong Kong's affairs in many ways. "I have no trust anymore in Beijing and am very disappointed."Zhang Tianqin, the vice-chairman of Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council said that China should listen to the demands of Hong Kong citizens for more democracy."This is the only way to guarantee prosperity and growth in Hong Kong, better understanding on both sides of the Taiwan Strait and trust of the international community in Mainland China."Zeng Fusheng, an adviser at the National Policy Foundation, a think tank for the Taiwanese opposition party Kuomingtang (KMT), told DW that Taiwan would never accept the Hong Kong option. "The Republic of China (Taiwan) is a sovereign state," he said."The one country, one system model in Hong Kong is all theater," said Li. "It was a nice idea but the acting from Hong Kong is poor. A comedy is turning into a tragedy. How could Taiwan trust China's model?"Hong Kong's 3.8 million registered voters have no say in the election of the chief executive, who will be chosen by an election committee. Hong Kong's former deputy leader, Carrie Lam (center), is seen as Beijing's favorite for the job. Her rivals are John "Pringles" Tsang (left), and Woo Kwok-hing (right). Analysts say they are unlikely to win due to a lack of Chinese endorsement.Leung Chun-ying, the current chief executive, said he would not seek a second term in office after his tenure ends on June 30. He is a deeply polarizing and highly unpopular figure in Hong Kong, especially among the anti-Beijing pro-democracy activists. It's speculated that he is not running in the election because Beijing wants to replace him with a likeable leader.Despite mass protests against his leadership, Leung has so far refused to step down. The ruling Communist Party in Beijing has repeatedly reiterated its support for Hong Kong's embattled leader. Beijing has also stressed its right to pre-approve a small number of candidates that are allowed to appear on a ballot to elect the former British colony's next chief executive.Hong Kong has enjoyed a special status since its return to China in 1997. The city enjoys a relatively freer press and its denizens can engage in political activities. Politically, however, Beijing wants to keep the city's reins in its control. The Chinese authorities are critical of any pro-democracy protests, calling them "illegal" and a "threat to social peace."In 2014, mass protests erupted in Hong Kong following the announcement by Chinese authorities that they would tightly control the nomination of candidates for the 2017 election. Beijing allows only pre-selected candidates to run for the election of the metropolis' leader. This means that the nomination of candidates who are critical of the central government is effectively excluded.Hong Kong witnessed renewed protests after Beijing expressed objections to two lawmakers who wore anti-China banners during their oath-taking ceremony in October, last year. China's top legislative body, The National People's Congress Standing Committee, called Baggio Leung and Yau Wai-ching's actions "a grave threat to national sovereignty and security."In November last year, a Hong Kong court disqualified Baggio Leung and Yau Wai-ching after they used anti-China insults when they were being sworn into office. The decision had been preempted by Beijing after it circumvented Hong Kong's courts to hand down its own interpretation of the Basic Law. Beijing ruled that Hong Kong legislators must swear allegiance to the region as part of China.Analysts say that irrespective of the election outcome, pro-independence sentiments will continue to gain momentum in Hong Kong. Two years ago, massive pro-democracy rallies organized by the "Umbrella Movement" were able to shut down parts of the city for weeks. Beijing has been keeping an eye on Hong Kong's political scene, fearing that the new developments could harm its unity and authority. Author: Shamil Shams