The leadership of populist party Alternative for Germany (AfD) has issued an official warning to Andre Poggenburg on Friday after comments found in an internal WhatsApp chat leaked last week.Party leaders Alice Weidel and Alexander Gauland issued the official warning, telling the Deutsche Presse Agentur his comments "massively damaged" the party's image and "pushed the party closer to right extremism."AfD leader Alice Weidel says blunt slogans do not help the partyThe left-wing news site "linksunten" published a WhatsApp group chat last Monday containing AfD members, called "AfD Info LSA." Federal police and domestic intelligence is combing through the chat dated from February to May of this year. Read More: Ten things you need to know about the AfDPoggenburg was found using slogan "Deutschland den Deutschen" (roughly: "Germany for the Germans") - a phrase commonly used by neo-Nazi groups in Germany and often used by the far-right NPD party. The AfD warned its deputy chairman in Mecklenburg Western-Pomerania, Ralph Weber, in April for using the same slogan on Facebook.AfD leaders have sought to distance themselves from the NPD.Facing initial criticism last week after the leak, Poggenburg at first defended his use of the slogan in a tweet: "Why should this put pressure on me? Of course 'Germany belongs to the Germans,' and that's how it should stay!"He also suggested AfD members receive a seminar on "Erweiterung der Aussengrenzen" ("expanding external borders"), a suggestion that another unnamed WhatsApp group member responded with thumbs up signs and flexed biceps emojis. Leadership has condemned this exchange as well, saying it was inconsistent with the AfD's platform. He has said he was referring to securing Europe's borders.Weidel, AfD's candidate for chancellor along with Gauland in Germany's election later this year, said the AfD sees itself as a "party for political realism" and "blunt sayings do not help [this image] and hurt the party. Whoever doesn't understand that has no place at the AfD."dv/rc (AP, dpa)"It is important to vote, because it is a privilege to live in a democracy and be able to vote," says Markus Degenkolb, managing director of the Ausl nderrat Dresden, which counsels immigrants. "I think it was a positive side effect of PEGIDA that the citizens of Dresden got more involved with politics." He was referring to an anti-Islam group that began in Dresden."I was not politically active before, but, when Mrs. Merkel said 'the euro rescue has no alternative,' the AfD party came at the right moment," says Kirsten Muster, a member of the right-wing Alternative for Germany in Saxony's state parliament."The discussion of public security and the distinction between asylum law and immigration: These topics interested me.""Claiming that people aren't equal because they are born in different places is crossing a line for me," says Michael Nattke. He is helping civil groups combat right-wing violence. "An AfD politician will not beat somebody up, but saying people don't belong here will motivate those prone to be violent to do so.""I have worked in a refugee shelter, but that has not changed my perspective," says Michel Honauer, who is considering voting for the AfD. "We have to treat people correctly, sure. But people have to accept that they are only guests here, and they don't. I will protect what I love. That's that.""It is more multicultural," says Carmen, who lives in Dresden's Strehlen district. "You see that with the kids playing here. It is enriching, but not everybody thinks so. There are many who complain and shout right-wing slogans at night. PEGIDA is damaging us as the authorities are so busy with them. The shops in the city are suffering, but politicians don't see that." Author: Sumi Somaskanda, Nina Haase