I am worried. There have been three attacks in three months in Britain. How can this not change a country? What is happening in my beloved, lively United Kingdom, where people from all over the world live together peacefully in a small space? Will my neighbor, a young woman who uses crutches to walk, have to face angry looks again, or even be bullied on the streets, as other Muslims in London have, after the latest attack? Will there be more? Must we be concerned when our children ride the bus?More than 30 people have been killed in attacks since March: first in London, then in Manchester and now in London again. Compared with the rest of the world, the terror threat is very low in Britain and the European Union. Nevertheless, the police have placed about 3,000 people under surveillance. Prime Minister Theresa May says there is "far too much tolerance of extremism" in the United Kingdom and that "enough is enough." The attack has prompted a renewal of calls to arrest suspects and jail them without trial. This is one of the demands being made by the right-wing UK Independence Party in its campaign for June's early elections. DW's Birgit MaassMeasures must be taken to ensure that there is no tolerance for extremism. In my opinion, this should begin in schools, many of which are faith schools in the United Kingdom. Children should always be taught British values, and never distorted versions of Islam. It would be even more sensible - and more conducive to peaceful coexistence in a society - if faith did not separate students. Even though most religious schools do have peaceful intentions, parallel societies can emerge, which provide fertile ground for intolerance and radicalization. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2e6l8'All one'There must be a focus on fighting terror on the internet, and funding cuts for essential police work must be stopped. But people should not forget that societal cohesion is decisive. I experienced this in Manchester after the attack.A police officer horseback had to manage crowds after the attack. She still took time to smile at a wheelchair user and warn him: "You take care, sweetheart." A visibly shocked Muslim taxi driver was not willing to accept any money from us. He insisted that on a day like this, we must stick together. "We are all one," he said. Like many other taxi drivers, he immediately drove to the scene of the attack. He took injured people to the hospital, free of charge. Friendly Sikhs offering water, chips and biscuits appeared everywhere in the city center. Londoners even offered a people a place to sleep late at night if they were unable to make it back north amid the confusion.London's mayor, Sadiq Khan, is a Muslim. His message is that we should not allow terrorists to win. Never lose faith in humanity and compassion.At 10:08 p.m. local time (2108 UTC) on Saturday night, London police hurried to respond to calls that a white van had jumped the curb on London Bridge, hitting several pedestrians. Shortly afterwards, reports emerged of multiple stabbings in the nearby Borough Market area.A row of double-decker busses stand empty on the city's iconic London Bridge. After running over pedestrians on the bridge, authorities said three assailants jumped out of their van and began stabbing people in a nearby fashionable bar area. Police said they shot dead all three attackers.Helicopters landed on London Bridge, while police boats patrolled the waters of the Thames River, helping to clear people from the area. Police said they were treating the incidences as "terrorist" attacks.Authorities mobilized quickly once the emergency call came in. Police units were driven to the vicinity of London Bridge, where they quickly changed into bullet-proof vests before entering the area where the attacks took place.The restaurant "The Blue Eyed Maid" is one of the many eateries located in the Borough Market area near London Bridge. The attackers stormed bars and restaurants, stabbing people at random. Police moved to clear members of the public away from the area.A picture taken by an Italian photographer circulated on social media, allegedly showing two of the assailants after they had been shot by police. One of the men appeared to be wearing a belt with canisters that looked similar to a suicide vest. Police later said that the canisters turned out to be "hoaxes."Passers-by were told to leave the area with their hands on their heads so that police could determine whether the attackers were among the evacuees.The horror of the night's events registered on the faces of those who police evacuated from the Borough Market bars and restaurants. Witnesses described seeing people covered in blood and suffering multiple stab wounds. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier Have something to say? Add your comments below. The thread is open for 24 hours from posting.