Germany 4-1 Mexico (Goretzka 6', 8', Werner 59', Younes 90'+1 - Fabian 89')Leon Goretzka impressed with a quickfire brace in the first eight minutes as Germany cruised past Mexico to set up a mouthwatering Confederations Cup final against Chile.Goretzka is one of several peripheral players to have been given a chance to shine by coach Joachim L w in this tournament, and the Schalke midfielder has once again proven his capability at international level.Scoring two well taken goals just two minutes apart, the 22-year-old set Germany on the path to victory against a first-choice Mexico side that had no answer to that early double blow.Germany were hungrier and more disciplined in every department and, in the end, totally outclassed Mexico. Chile's swashbuckling style and wealth of experience will be a huge test for the Germans in Sunday's final, but L w will feel the tournament has already been a success for his fledgling group.But there is no chance that L w's crop of players will merely settle for reaching the final, and Goretzka is determined that they carry their momentum through to the final. "Our goal was to reach the final. We now need to reward ourselves for our hard work and we want to get the title," said Goretzka.Germany captain Julian Draxler, who continues to grow into the role of captain, added: "We already played them in the group stage and we know they are good, they are one of the best teams in the competition I have seen so far."All three German scorers in the southern Russian resort of Sochi were making their tournament debuts. After Goretzka's early goals, both well taken strikes after Benjamin Henrichs and Timo Werner provided the assists, Werner himself got on the scoresheet with a neat finish after Jonas Hector picked him out.Ajax's Amin Younes has been limited to substitute appearances for much of the tournament, but came off the bench to put the finishing touches on what was an impressive team performance by L w's men.L w took some criticism for taking such a young and inexperienced side to Russia, but it was a choice he says he made after the World Cup in 2014, and is pleased with how his players have risen to the challenge - and singled out Goretzka for praise."We couldn't expect it from this team. But it fought and won and deserves to be in the final. The group has really become a unit," L w told German broadcaster ARD. "It was important that we started so well and imposed our game on Mexico. Leon Goretzka played fantastic, he is in great form and has a lot of class."Despite the convincing score line, Germany goalkeeper Marc-Andre Ter Stegen was kept busy. He faced 25 shots on goal but he only conceded in the 89th minute when he was beaten by Marco Fabian's stunning long-range swerving shot.Mexico had gone close earlier in the second half when Miguel Layun connected with Javier Hernandez's cross with a header, only to see the ball come back off the bar. Mexico will now head to Moscow to play Portugal in the third-place match on Sunday.As it happened: