Dominic Thiem swept aside defending champion Novak Djokovic in a stunning French Open upset on Wednesday, setting up a semifinal clash against nine-time champion Rafael Nadal.Austrian sixth seed Thiem sent the world number two crashing to his earliest loss in Paris in seven years with a memorable 7-6 (7-5), 6-3, 6-0 triumph.It also piled the pressure back onto the 12-time Grand Slam winner to prove that he is still a contender at the majors following a second-round exit at the Australian Open in January."All the top players go through this. I will get through it, learn the lessons and figure out how to get out of it," said 30-year-old Djokovic. "It's a big challenge but I am up for it."The defeat was Djokovic's first straight-sets loss at a major in four years and comes just 12 months after he completed the career Grand Slam in Paris.Wednesday saw him suffer a first 6-0 'bagel' at a Slam since the 2005 US Open while the defeat will also see him slip out of the world's top two for the first time in six years.Novak Djokovic: "All the top players go through this. I will get through it, learn the lessons and figure out how to get out of it.""It's a dream to beat Novak for the first time and reach the semi-finals at Roland Garros again," said Thiem, who was beaten by Djokovic in straight sets in the semifinals in Paris in 2016. It was Thiem's first win over the Serb in six meetings."It was tricky today, it was windy and cold. It was important to move well and hit clean."Thiem trails Nadal 4-2 in career meetings but remains the only man to beat the Spaniard on clay this year after winning in the Rome quarter-finals."It's always difficult the deeper you go in the draw - it won't be any easier on Friday."The French Open was first held in 1891, when it was only open to members of French tennis clubs. At first the tournament was played on a number of different surfaces and at different locations, including at the Bois de Bologne in the west end of Paris. The current facility, named after French aviator Roland Garros, was constructed in 1928.In 1925, the tournament was opened up to players who didn't belong to French clubs, but it wasn't until 1933 that a foreigner won the title. Australian Jack Crawford beat five-time champion Henri Clochet. Crawford, though, wasn't the first foreigner to win the title, as H. Briggs (his first name is not known), a Briton, who resided in Paris, won the first tournament in 1891.German players had much success at Roland Garros in the 1930s. Baron Gottfried von Cramm (pictured above) won on the men's side in 1934 and 1936, while Henner Henkel won in 1937. Cilly Aussem won the women's tournament in 1931 while Hilde Sperling took the trophy three years running, from 1935 through 1937.Sweden's Bjorn Borg (above left) was the dominant player of his era and he won the French Open all but two years between 1974 and 1981. He was just 18 when he won his first title at Roland Garros and was still just 25 when he won his last French Open, beating Ivan Lendl (right) in the final. He retired from tennis at the tender age of 26. In 1989, Ivan Lendl was in the final again, this time against 17-year-old American Michael Chang. The two battled it out over five sets, and Chang in particular suffered from cramps and fatigue. Eventually, the American was so tired that he began serving underhand. However, he still overcame the 29-year-old from Czechoslovakia to become the youngest Grand Slam winner ever. Bjorn Borg's record of six men's French Open titles stood until the following millenium. Rafael Nadal pulled level with his win in 2011, before passing Borg with his seventh in 2012 (pictured above). The Spanish player now has a total of nine singles titles to his name, having also won the 2013 and 2014 tournaments. For several years beginning in the late 1980s, Germany's serve-and-volley specialist, Boris Becker, won just about every grass-court tournament going. However, he had no luck at Roland Garros, only reaching the semifinals on three occasions, 1987, 1989, and 1991. In fact, during his 15 years as a professional, Becker never won a single tournament on clay.French tennis fans have been waiting for one of their own to win the title at Roland Garros for more than three decades. The last Frenchman to do so was Yannick Noah, who beat the previous champion, Mats Wilander of Sweden, in the 1983 final. The last Frenchman to make it to the final was Henri Leconte in 1988. The roaring 20s were a much better era for French fans, who watched Suzanne Leglen dominate on the women's side, winning the singles on six of seven tries between 1920 and 1926. Leglen, whose graceful style made her one of the world's biggest tennis stars, won a total of 25 Grand Slam titles. In the summer of 1938 she was diagnosed with leukemia and died a few weeks later at the age of 39.Chris Evert-Lloyd (above, right), won seven titles between 1974 and 1986, often meeting her biggest rival, Martina Navratilova (left) in the final. Evert-Lloyd beat Navratilova for the first time when she won the 1975 title. Between 1984 and 1986 they met in the final three consecutive times, with Evert-Lloyd winning twice. This was followed by the period of dominance by Steffi Graf. The German made it to the final at Roland Garros nine times between 1987 and 1999 - winning the title six times. Her biggest final was in 1988, when she beat Natasha Zvereva of the Soviet Union 6-0, 6-0 in just 32 minutes. Her last French Open title came against the then-women's world No. 1, Martina Hingis of Switzerland, in 1999.Center court, named after former tennis player Philippe Chartrier, has a capacity of 15,000, while next door, the Suzanne Lenglen court can hold up to 10,000. None of the stadiums at Roland Garros has a roof, meaning it can get really hot when the weather is good, or really unpleasant if it rains.This also means that hardly a French Open goes by without rain delaying proceedings at some point or other. When this happens, the spectators can only put up their umbrellas, while the surface is covered with a tarp. There are plans for the main courts to get roofs - but not until 2020. Author: Andreas Sten-Ziemons Nadal though after Busta retiresRafael Nadal reached the last four of the tournament after his opponent, compatriot Pablo Carreno Busta, was forced to retire early in the second set.Nadal, bidding for a 10th title at Roland Garros, was leading 6-2 2-0 when Carreno Busta decided he could not continue after receiving lengthy treatment for a left abdominal muscle injury at the end of the first set.The 31-year-old Nadal has spent only eight hours on court, dropping 22 games in the process, to reach his record-extending 10th semi-final at the French Open.Murray and Wawrinka ease throughWorld number one Andy Murray recovered from an early scare to cruise through to the semifinals. Japanese number eight seed Kei Nishikori took the first set in comfortable fashion, winning 6-2 to put Murray under immediate pressure. But the Scot responded in style to take the second set 6-1.After a crushing 7-0 victory in a third-set tiebreak, Murray never looked in any danger. The fourth set turned into a formality, and Murray cruised home to take the match 2-6, 6-1, 7-6 (7-0), 6-1.His opponent in the semifinals will be US Open champion Stan Wawrinka. The 2015 winner reached his third major semifinal in a row by eliminating Marin Cilic 6-3, 6-3, 6-1. The match will see a repeat of last year's semifinal, which ended in victory for Andy Murray. Halep back from the brinkSimona Halep made a dramatic recovery from a set and 5-1 down to beat Eilina Svitolina 3-6, 7-6 (8-6), 6-0 for a place in the French Open semifinals on Wednesday.The victory counted as one of the best wins of the Romania's career, three months after her Australian coach Darren Cahill temporarily dropped her due to her 'negative attitude'.If Halep wins the French Open she will rise to the top of the rankings for the first time.Halep will face second seed Karolina Pliskova in Thursday's semifinal. Pliskova booked her spot in the last four with a 7-6 (7-3), 6-4 defeat of France's Caroline Garcia.If Halep wins the tournament, she will rise to the top of the rankings for the first time.mds/mf (AFP, Reuters)