More than 7,000 refugees and migrants have been stranded in Serbia since neighboring countries closed their borders. Many are spending what money they have left on people smugglers. (27.01.2017) Greece promised to make Athens 2004 the greenest Olympics ever, but environmental groups have already given the Athens Olympic Organizing Committee (ATHOC) failing grades when it comes to protecting nature. (02.09.2004) Researchers warn that child refugees in Greece are selling their bodies to fund their journeys to the heart of Europe. But as Anthee Carassava reports, few are prepared to abandon the dream of reaching their destination. (21.04.2017) Greek authorities blocked off the access to the airport site on Friday, as some 500 migrants were due to be bused to other camps in Greece. A group of 350 refugees, mostly families, would leave for Thebes some 70 kilometers (45 miles) northwest of Athens. The remaining adults would first be taken to police headquarters for identity checks and later move on to Derveni, 140 kilometers west of the capital.UN's refugee organization UNHCR was assisting with the move."The operation is underway without incident as [the migrants] had been informed beforehand," police spokesman Theodoros Chronopoulos told the AFP news agency.The government has repeatedly promised to empty the Hellenikon site, which held several thousand people at its peak. The authorities started sending migrants there in 2015 as a temporary measure when Balkan countries decided to close their borders and block the newcomers' from entering richer EU states to the north and west.'Unfit' for migrantsHundreds of refugees were forced to sleep in tents in old terminals last summer. In February, a group of migrants started a hunger strike over the lack of hot water and suitable food. Human rights activists also slammed the improvised camp as unfit for long-term accommodation. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2YKCeThe Hellenikon was closed down in 2001, and the government used the surrounding area to build sports venues for the 2004 Olympics. The complex hosted various events during the competition, including baseball, fencing, hockey and kayaking.A private investor is now due to launch a 7 billion euro ($7.9 billion) redevelopment project, which would include building hotels, parks and malls at the seaside property.Some 62,000 migrants are currently stranded in Greece, which was the main entry point for migrants across the Mediterranean Sea.dj/sms (AP, dpa, AFP)