The Turkish interior ministry on Monday announced that 130 Turks would lose their citizenship if they do not return to the country within 90 days.The group of 130 Turkish citizens includes exiled cleric Fethullah Gulen (pictured above) and two lawmakers from the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democracy Party (HDP), Faysal Sariyildiz and Tugba Hezer.Ankara has accused the US-based cleric and his supporters of orchestrating a failed coup last year that left more than 300 people dead, including civilians.Since then, the government has launched a nationwide crackdown on suspected members of Gulen's movement, with some 50,000 people arbitrarily jailed and more than 120,000 purged from jobs in civil services and the armed forces.Real and imagined threats: the shared past of AKP and the G len movementFollowing the failed coup of July 2016, Turkey imposed a state of emergency, allowing to rule by decree. Human rights groups have criticized the sweeping purges and detentions, saying it represents an authoritarian shift in the Anatolian nation.Ankara has also accused the pro-Kurdish HDP of supporting the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party, considered a terrorist group by Turkey, the EU and US. The party, however, has denied any links to the PKK.Kurds targetedTurkey has jailed at least 11 HDP lawmakers along with thousands of party members. The two lawmakers sought by Turkey are believed to be residing in Europe.A blood covered resident of Istanbul stands near the Bosphorus Bridge. There were clashes between civilians and the army after the military had blocked the bridge. Government sources say that more than 260 people were killed in fighting during the coup attempt.Tanks drove through several cities in the night in a completely surprise move. The Turkish military announced its takeover. The tracked vehicles flattened cars in the streets of Istanbul and Ankara, turning the country into a war zone.After the bombing of parliament in Ankara, the building is in ruins. Fighter jets flew low over the capital and had the citizens panicking.The army not only closed the Bosphorus Bridge: it also occupied Taksim Square, a main transportation hub in Istanbul. The soldiers positioned themselves in front of the Republic Monument.Erdogan supporters also protested on the square. A showdown began when a soldier pointed his gun at a man. The army opened fire on the protesting crowd on the square.Shirts off their backs: After the failed coup attempt, rebel soldiers laid down their arms on the Bosporus Bridge and fled.After the armed forces had surrendered, soldiers tried to get on a bus to flee from the angry masses.President Tayyip Erdogan returned to Istanbul. Cheering crowds received him at the airport. Erdogan announced that the rebels would pay a heavy price.Erdogan supporters triumph and wave the Turkish flag after the army's withdrawal. The coup attempt has failed.Bizarre souvenir: A mother took a picture of her daughter on top of a tank. The tank on the Bosphorus Bridge was surrounded by Turkish police. Author: Astrid Prange / gro Since the collapse of a peace initiative in July 2015, Turkey has bolstered its campaign against the PKK. But human rights organizations, including UN agencies, have slammed Turkey for its deadly campaigns in predominantly Kurdish regions.Turkish police detain prime minister's top aide over alleged Gulen linksIn March, the UN accused Turkey of killing hundreds of Kurds in the country's southeast region, where it has launched a brutal campaign against PKK militants.The report said that Turkish security forces committed human rights violations, including extrajudicial executions, rape and torture."In total, some 2,000 people were reportedly killed between July 2015 and August 2016, including local residents, amongst whom were women and children, as well as close 800 members of the security forces," said the report published by the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2e2XDls/rc (AFP, AP, dpa, EFE)