Earlier this month, the EU Institute for Security Studies (EUISS) published a report exploring gray swan scenarios, or hypothetical events that "may seem unlikely now but which could happen at one point in time," which could transform the security situation regionally and even globally."In a world increasingly shaped by unexpected events and developments - ranging from 'strategic surprises' like 9/11 or the Arab Spring to the unintended consequences of often well-meant decisions - trying to imagine contingencies that challenge current assumptions may well prove a useful exercise," writes EUISS Director Antonio Missiroli in the foreword.The report "What if ... Conceivable crises: unpredictable in 2017, unmanageable in 2020?" edited by EUISS senior analyst Florence Gaub, offers hypothetical events that range from the "Islamic State" militant group hijacking a cruise ship in the Mediterranean to a massive right-wing terrorist attack in a western European nation.DW spoke with Daniel Fiott, security and defense editor at EUISS who worked on the project, to find out more about gray swan scenarios and how they can help decision-makers in the EU prepare for the unexpected.Deutsche Welle: What are the intended consequences of the gray swan scenarios used in the report? Daniel Fiott: Given the important role the EUISS played in the process leading to the publication of the EU Global Strategy, we take seriously the idea that Europeans are increasingly living in a world of predictable unpredictability'. Our agency is specifically tasked with contributing to the development of EU strategic thinking.Read more: 'Security Union': The greatest threat to the EU comes from withinOn this basis, we feel that we have a duty to ensure that EU policy makers are thinking about future scenarios and ways to prevent crises. In this sense, the gray swan scenarios we elaborate in the report are designed to shock the reader. Once we have got the readers' attention, the reader is invited to think about moments when the EU and its member states could have responded. The scenarios have been written in such a way as to allow the reader to become a problem solver.Overall, one of the main objectives of the scenarios is to improve the EU's crisis prevention and response. The crises we present in the report are multi-faceted and no single EU institution or mechanism or member state is able to deal with them alone. We hope that the report leads to further coherence in the EU's response to crises and a shared assessment of these crises too.In late 2014, with the war in Syria approaching its fourth year and Islamic State making gains in the north of the country, the exodus of Syrians intensified. At the same time, others were fleeing violence and poverty in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia, Niger and Kosovo.Vast numbers of Syrian refugees had been gathering in border-town camps in neighboring Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan since 2011. By 2015, with the camps full to bursting and residents often unable to find work or educate their children, more and more people decided to seek asylum further afield.In 2015 an estimated 1.5 million people made their way on foot from Greece towards western Europe via the "Balkan route". The Schengen Agreement, which allows passport-free travel within much of the EU, was called into question as refugees headed towards the wealthier European nations. Tens of thousands of refugees were also attempting the perilous journey across the Mediterranean on overcrowded boats. In April 2015, 800 people of various nationalities drowned when a boat traveling from Libya capsized off the Italian coast. This was to be just one of many similar tragedies - by the end of the year, nearly 4,000 refugees were reported to have died attempting the crossing.Countries along the EU's external border struggled to cope with the sheer number of arrivals. Fences were erected in Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia and Austria. Asylum laws were tightened and several Schengen area countries introduced temporary border controls.Critics of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "open-door" refugee policy claimed it had made the situation worse by encouraging more people to embark on the dangerous journey to Europe. By September 2016, Germany had also introduced temporary checks on its border with Austria.In early 2016, the EU and Turkey signed an agreement under which refugees arriving in Greece could be sent back to Turkey. The deal has been criticised by human rights groups and came under new strain following a vote by the European Parliament in November to freeze talks on Turkey's potential accession to the EU.With anti-immigration sentiment in Europe growing, governments are still struggling to reach a consensus on how to handle the continuing refugee crisis. Attempts to introduce quotas for the distribution of refugees among EU member states have largely failed. Conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere show no signs coming to an end, and the death toll from refugee sea crossings is on the rise. Author: Rachel Stewart Is it possible for the EU and its member states to adequately prepare for the unexpected security situation using gray swan scenarios? The authors of the report certainly hope so. The point about using gray swan scenarios is to first focus minds on the types of crises that could affect the European Union in the future. At the EUISS we are able to use our wealth of analytical skills and knowledge to create scenarios that are forward-looking and strategic in nature. Unlike the EUISS, officials in other parts of the EU institutional system do not always have the time or resources to think about what the future might bring.Read more: How the world reacted to Angela Merkel's pivot to EuropeIn a sense, therefore, gray swan exercises are primarily designed to raise awareness about the unpredictability of global affairs. Admitting that we could be unprepared for a particular scenario is, perhaps counter-intuitively, a good thing. The benefit of using gray swan scenarios is that they help policy makers think through the available tools the EU and its member states have before a crisis potentially breaks out.In this sense, gray swan scenarios can play a role in preventing crises and it may even lead to better crisis preparedness. However, where gray swan scenarios have limited effect is if policy makers fail to generate the institutional and material capabilities needed to respond to a particular crisis.Daniel Fiott of EUISS says the scenarios provide opportunities for EU institutions to test their preparedness for unexpected situationsHow can gray swan scenarios better prepare decision makers for the worst?Gray swan scenario exercises are a means to an end. They are designed to make people think the unthinkable. In many ways, however, scenario planning is the easy part putting humpty dumpty back together again' is the really difficult part. In this sense, one of the important contributions that gray swan scenarios play is by bringing together a range of crisis managers and decision makers.Read more: German soldiers as a domestic security force?For example, prior to the publication of the What if' report we organized a number of workshops that brought together a range of civilian and military officials to discuss the scenarios. We were positively surprised at the types of conversations during the workshops: there was better mutual understanding of existing crisis response mechanisms and tools; greater awareness of lines of political reporting; and many officials exchanged business cards with the hope of taking the work further.This is exactly what the authors of the report had in mind. We were keen to present crisis scenarios in the hope of connecting the dots in the EU crisis response system. Indeed, we even foresee taking the report a step further by potentially organizing joint simulations. Our report seems to have however modestly started a process that may lead to better preparedness in the EU.Daniel Fiott is the security and defense editor at the EU Institute for Security Studies. This interview was conducted by Lewis Sanders IV. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2VzsA