Orlando Figuera died in hospital on Sunday, two weeks after he was set on fire at an anti-government protest in eastern Caracas, the state prosecutor's office said on Twitter.The 22-year-old is the 65th fatality in weeks of unrest. More than a thousand people have been injured.Protesters blame Socialist President Nicolas Maduro for the political and economic crisis plaguing the country, which is suffering crippling shortages of food and medicines. Many are also angry about the government's plan to push ahead with a referendum to elect a constituent assembly to rewrite the constitution.Maduro announced the controversial move in May, saying it would help restore peace to the oil-rich nation. But the opposition accuses him of trying to hold onto power by packing the planned assembly with his allies. They want him to instead hold early elections.A protester is hit by a jet from a water cannon during an opposition march against hunger in CaracasVote date proposed The head of the country's National Electoral Council (CNE), Tibisay Lucena, on Sunday said the government was hoping to hold the referendum on July 30. That proposed date must be approved by the Supreme Electoral Council.The opposition responded to the decision by calling for a "sit-in" along Venezuela's main roads on Monday."If Tibisay pushes a date, we push street protests," opposition lawmaker Freddy Guevara wrote on Twitter. "This (June 5), 12 hours of resistance! No to the fraud that is this constituent assembly!"Brutal deathThe Socialist government and the opposition have also traded blame over Orlando Figuera's killing. The young man was beaten and stabbed before being doused in petrol and set alight during a protest on May 20. He suffered first and second degree burns to 80 percent of his body, officials said. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2e26QMaduro called the death a hate crime, saying that Figuera was targeted because he supported the government and had dark skin."He was the victim of an attack by fascists," Maduro said on his weekly television show. "How far will they go?"But the opposition, which condemned the incident, said members of the crowd had accused him of "stealing." Lynchings and mob violence have become increasingly common in Venezuela, with a breakdown in security leading many to take justice into their own hands.Opposition leader Henrique Capriles said all Venezuelans wanted justice for "Orlando and all the dead and wounded. The main guilty party: Nicolas Maduro."The Secretary General of the Organization of American States, Luis Almagro, expressed his condolences for Figuera's family on Twitter, saying "Venezuela doesn't deserve this much pain."Almagro, who has been a vocal critic of President Maduro, on Saturday blasted Venezuela's electoral council and its head Tibisay Lucena, saying they were complicit in the country's crisis. He said the government's proposed assembly was "illegitimate, unconstitutional and fraudulent."Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands have taken to the streets in the weeks since to call for new elections. They show no signs of stopping.As of March, Venezuela's inflation rate surpassed 220 percent, according to the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics. The country's largest bill - the 100 bolivar note - was worth just $0.04 at the end of last year. Shopping trips now require stacks, or even bags, of cash to buy the bare necessities.An estimated 80 percent of food items and other basics were in short supply by last year. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally can enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement.In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen otherwise only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever.Electricity blackouts and fuel shortages have also driven Venezuelans to desperation. Despite Venezuela's possession of the world's largest oil reserves, drivers face long lines at the gas pump. A 50-percent collapse in oil prices in 2014 devastated the oil-dependent economy. In 2013, revenues were $80 billion. That figure dropped to $20 billion by 2016, according to IMF figures.Lower poverty rates, better education and health, and economic growth: These are all part of the legacy of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Equally part of the socialist's legacy was mismanagement. Not only did he fail to keep the state oil company up to date under increased government control, but his government also overspent despite a drop in oil production after 2006.Chavez's hand-picked successor, Nicolas Maduro, has been in office for four years and has two more to go. The opposition center-right coalition, which has controlled the National Assembly since 2015, has accused him of "abandoning his post" by failing to stem the economic devastation. It has also denounced him for rights abuses.The most recent example of Maduro's rights abuses was to silence opposition leader, Henrique Capriles, pictured above. In early April, Capriles was banned from seeking public office for 15 years due to "administrative irregularities" in his role as a governor. Capriles had been at the forefront of demands for a referendum on Maduro. The ban further inflamed tensions with protesters.Aside from protests, the opposition collected 2 million signatures for a referendum last year, roughly 10 times the number required. And in a move against the Supreme Court - and in lieu of impeachment hearings - it also held a symbolic trial for Maduro. Numerous attempts to stymie its attempts to pressure the government have only emboldened these lawmakers.Since the outbreak of explosive protests in April, at least 60 people have died and a further 1,000 have been injured. Rights campaigners say police have arrested roughly 3,000 people. Meanwhile, the international community looks on with concern. The Organization for American States, which has openly opposed Maduro, plans to reconvene in June to discuss intervening in the crisis. Author: Kathleen Schuster nm/jm (Reuters, AFP, EFE, dpala) 