Former US National Basketball Association (NBA) player Dennis Rodman announced on Tuesday that he would be traveling to North Korea.Rodman, who has visited the communist nation several times before, said US President Donald Trump is happy with his visit, adding that it aims "to accomplish something we both need.""I'm just trying to open the door," the flamboyant ex-basketball told reporters at Beijing's international airport.Tensions between Pyongyang and Washington have increased since Trump took office in January. However, the US president has expressed openness to meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un."If it would be appropriate to me to meet with him, I would absolutely, I would be honored to do it," Trump told the New York-based Bloomberg News Agency in May.Read more: North Korea attempts to split South Korea-US security allianceUS Undersecretary of State Thomas Shannon told reporters in Tokyo that Rodman was visiting North Korea as a private citizen, and reiterated Washington's travel warnings to US nationals."We are aware of his visit. We wish him well. But we have issued travel warnings to Americans and suggested they not travel to North Korea for their own safety," Shannon said.Dennis Rodman (right) has described the North Korean leader as "an awesome kid"Tensions on the Korean PeninsulaThe US and its regional allies have voiced concerns over North Korea's nuclear and ballistic missiles programs, with Trump warning that open conflict may emerge if Pyongyang continues to act aggressively.However, South Korea last week announced it will hold off on the development of a contentious anti-missile system dubbed the Terminal High Altitude Defense (THAAD), a move that has appeased China and marked a shift in policy under Seoul's new president.Read more: Can North Korea's elites oust Kim Jong Un?Washington has increasingly called on Beijing to do more to curb North Korea's nuclear and ballistic missiles programs."We desire productive relations," US State Secretary Rex Tillerson said last week during a visit to Australia. "But we cannot allow China to use its economic power to buy its way out of other problems, whether it's militarizing islands in the South China Sea or failing to put appropriate pressure on North Korea."In February, China banned all coal imports from North Korea. Under tight conditions, North Korea may still export $400.87 million (374 million euros) or 7.5 million metric tons of coal per year, whichever is less. Pictured here is China's Liaoning Greenland Energy Coal Co. in Dandong, on the border with North Korea. North Korea is prohibited from opening banks abroad, and UN member states are prohibited from operating financial institutions on Pyongyang's behalf. Any dealings that might help North Korea skirt the sanctions are banned, and UN member states must expel and repatriate anyone working on the regime's financial behalf.This North Korean cargo ship found itself boarded for inspection in the Philippines in March 2016 after the United Nations ordered member nations to de-register any vessel owned, operated or crewed on orders from Pyongyang. North Korean ships also cannot fly the flags of other nations to evade sanctions. Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, remains exempt from aviation sanctions and still has scheduled flights to China and Russia, as well as several domestic routes. However, the airline cannot fly to the European Union, which has banned it on safety grounds, and the United States prevents citizens from legally conducting business with the carrier.In theory, North Koreans can still cruise the country in Pyeonghwa sedans, as UN sanctions only currently ban the sale of aviation, jet and rocket fuel to Pyongyang. Crude and similar oils remain permitted - for now. The automaker, owned in a joint venture with the deceased North Korean Reverend Sun Myung Moon's influential Unification Church, only cranks out a few hundred cars a year.UN sanctions limit North Korea's diplomats abroad - at the country's Berlin embassy, for example - to only one bank account each. North Korea is also not permitted to own real estate abroad for any purposes other than consular.It's a safe bet that North Korea's marching military did not learn its moves abroad: UN sanctions ban foreign security forces from training the country's army, police or paramilitary units. The United Nations does permit medical exchanges, but otherwise allow very little assistance of scientific or technical value.Anyone wanting to own a larger-than-life Kim will have to await the end of North Korea's nuclear program. The UN sanctions currently ban the sale of statues by the nation.ls/rc (Reuters, AP)