Manfred Weber, the head of the European Parliament's largest group and a key ally of German Chancellor Angela Merkel, on Tuesday said that extending the deadline for Brexit talks would be extremely difficult."The clock is ticking," Weber told DW. "As Europeans, we are simply surprised that we have now in London such a chaotic situation."Brussels was ready and waiting to begin negotiations, he said, but no one knew what to expect in talks with a future British government. "We need now a clear indication from London what they want to achieve," Weber told DW.Read: Hard or soft - how will the UK take its Brexit?He expressed frustration with the lack of direction from London concerning the negotiations, saying that British Prime Minister Theresa May and Brexit minister David Davis have been clear about what they don't like, but less clear on how they want the talks to play out."We have no indication what they like, what they want to achieve in the negotiations," Weber said, adding that such a stance "is a very risky thing because at the end, a hard Brexit will be a disaster for London." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eennNo extension of Brexit talk deadlineThe German MEP said that he opposed extending the two-year deadline for negotiations set in motion in March when the UK triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty.He said it was unthinkable and "not realistic" to consider the prospect of the UK voting for MEPs during the 2019 European Parliament election - due just days after the UK's current deadline to exit.Weber said he hoped the rest of the European Union would realize "that it's better to reform Europe than to leave or even destroy the European Union."May pushes coalition dealMay made progress on Tuesday in securing a coalition deal with the hardline Northern Irish Democratic Unionist Party (DUP).She met with DUP leader Arlene Foster, whose party has 10 parliamentary seats needed for a Conservative minority government. The BBC reported that a deal is expected to be signed on Wednesday."Discussions are going well with the government," Foster said. "We hope soon to be able to bring this work to a successful conclusion."The coalition deal has also raised questions about May's plans for a so-called "hard Brexit," broadly interpreted to mean withdrawing the European single market and its open borders. While the DUP's stance is relatively euroskeptic - certainly by Northern Irish standards - the party has placed great importance on retaining a "frictionless border" with the Republic of Ireland, an EU member, after Brexit.Politicians worried about N. Ireland peacePoliticians from Northern Ireland's nationalist party Sinn Fein - the direct Catholic and republican rival to the Protestant and unionist DUP - have been particularly critical of any planned deal between the Tories and the DUP. But even former Conservative Prime Minister John Major, who helped lay the foundations of the 1997 Good Friday Agreement in Northern Ireland, said in an interview that he was "dubious" about his party doing a deal with the DUP. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ecq2"A fundamental part of that peace process is that the UK government needs to be impartial between all the competing interests in Northern Ireland. . That was always the intention right from the start of the negotiations," Major told BBC Radio 4. "The danger is, that however much any government tries, they will not be seen to be impartial if they are locked into a parliamentary deal at Westminster with one of the Northern Ireland parties."May called for the early national election hoping to strengthen her party's majority going into negotiations on the UK's exit from the EU. Instead, national politics were thrown into disarray after the opposition Labour Party made unexpected gains in the vote, coming in a strong second.A view of "The Flamingo" amusement arcade in Great Yarmouth. 72% of people in this town on England's east coast voted to leave the European Union during the referendum in June 2016. The area has the third lowest percentage of university educated residents and among the highest number of working class voters.The five most euroskeptic areas are all on Britain's east coast, including Great Yarmouth in Norfolk. One reason might be a rise in immigration, as well as a general decline in the standard of living, which has led to huge frustrations in these areas in recent years.A UKIP sticker in a car's rear window in Great Yarmouth. The seaside resort is situated some 140 miles (200 km) northeast of London.The borough of Hartlepool voted to leave the European Union by 69.6%. There was a similar result in much of the Britain's northeast, including in cities such as Sunderland and Stanley.A row of housing in Stanley, County Durham. The former colliery town is one of the cheapest places to buy a house in the UK. Durham voted to leave the European Union by 57.5%. In the whole northeast, Newcastle was the only borough to vote Remain, though by a narrow margin. This was most likely due to its large student population and dependency on EU funding. The former Joplings Department Store stands derelict. Plans to convert the building into a designer hotel are currently underway. A report by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation in 2016 named Sunderland one of the most declining cities in the UK. It also says that ten of the UK s top 12 struggling cities are based in the north. No city in the south featured in the top 12, or even 24, of the index.A mural of local football hero, Raich Carter, embellishes the wall of the Blue Bell Pub in Hendon, his former area in Sunderland. Wearmouth Colliery, which was a major North Sea coal mine, was the largest mine in Sunderland. Also one of the most important mines in northeast England, it was closed at the end of 1993. The former mine is now the site of Sunderland AFC s Stadium of Light. Author: Nadine Berghausen