CNN said Wednesday that former FBI director James Comey's Senate testimony could come as early as next week.The Senate Intelligence Committee said on May 19 that Comey, who was sacked by US President Donald Trump earlier in May, would publicly testify before the panel after the May 29 Memorial Day holiday.Citing an unidentified source, CNN said that Comey planned to confirm reports that Trump pressured him into dropping an investigation about former national security adviser Michael Flynn's ties with Russia.Read: Trump denies urging former FBI chief to drop Flynn inquiryEarlier this month, Virginia Senator Mark Warner, a leading lawmaker of the opposition Democrats, said that Comey had declined an invitation to discuss an investigation into Trump's campaign and Russia before the Senate Intelligence Committee.Trump had surprisingly fired Comey, who was charged with investigating the Trump campaign's ties with Russia, in a move that set off shockwaves in Washington amid concerns of a cover-up.Comey, 56, was nominated by former President Barack Obama for the FBI post in 2013 to a 10-year term. Comey has spent three decades in law enforcement.It was only the second time in the US history that a president fired the head of the FBI. The first occurred in 1993, when then-President Bill Clinton dismissed William Sessions over alleged ethical lapses.FBI Director James Comey announces in May that the bureau will open an investigation into Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server for both her personal and government correspondence while secretary of state between 2009 and 2013. Two months later, Comey says that the FBI will not pursue criminal charges against Clinton, enraging Republican legislators.US authorities seize former New York congressman Anthony Weiner's laptop and mobile devices as part of a probe into allegations he sent sexually explicit text messages to a 15-year-old. They go on to discover emails from Clinton and Huma Abedin, Weiner's wife and a close Clinton aid, on the devices.The Obama administration publically accuses Moscow of meddling in the 2016 presidential election after WikiLeaks publishes a trove of confidential emails from the Democratic National Convention. In a statement, the Department of Homeland Security says it believes that "based on the scope and sensitivity of these efforts, only Russia s senior-most officials could have authorized these activities."Just days before the presidential election, Comey announces the FBI is reopening its investigation into Clinton's email on the back of evidence found on Weiner's laptop. "It took a lot of guts... But I ll tell you what he did, he brought back his reputation," Republican nominee Donald Trump says. On November 6, the FBI concludes it found nothing in the emails to alter its original decision.Trump is elected President, defeating Clinton by winning 304 electoral college votes to her 227.Comey confirms that the FBI is investigating alleged ties between Trump's election campaign team and the Russian government. The FBI director also dismisses the president's tweets alleging that Obama ordered Trump Tower to be wiretapped during the election. In her most extensive remarks since the divisive presidential election, Clinton says that Comey's email probe announcement in October contributed to her election defeat. Trump, meanwhile, takes a different view, tweeting that Comey "gave her a free pass for many bad deeds!"The very next day, Comey testifies before the Senate Judiciary Committee, defending his decision to reopen the investigation into Clinton's email just days before the election. He says it makes him "nauseous" to think he could have affected the election, but adds that Abedin had forwarded "hundreds and thousands of emails (to Weiner), some of which contain classified information."The Washington Post newspaper and ProPublica investigative journalism network reveal that the FBI was forced to clarify in a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee that Comey had exaggerated about the number of emails Abedin forwarded.Trump, heeding advice from Department of Justice, fires Comey, informing him that he is "not able to effectively lead the bureau." In a memo, the White House says it "cannot defend the Director's handling of the conclusion of the investigation of Secretary Clinton's emails," and does "not understand his refusal to accept the nearly universal judgment that he was mistaken." Author: David Martin House intelligence committee subpoenas Flynn and Trump attorneyLater on Wednesday, the House of Representatives intelligence committee, which is leading its own probe into alleged collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign, said it had subpoenaed Flynn and Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen. "As part of our ongoing investigation into Russian active measures during the 2016 campaign, today we approved subpoenas for several individuals for testimony, personal documents and business records," Representatives Mike Conaway and Adam Schiff said in a statement. "We hope and expect that anyone called to testify or provide documents will comply with that request."Each of the two men's private firms, Flynn Intel Llc, and Michael D. Cohen and Associates PC, had also been subpoenaed, the statement said.Flynn was forced to resign from his post in US President Donald Trump's cabinet in February following reports that he had lied to top officials, including Vice President Mike Pence, about the nature of his contacts with Russian diplomats. Later evidence showed that he had also received payments from Russian and Turkish interests.Last week, Flynn refused produce documents after he was subpoenaed by the Senate Intelligence Committee, citing the Fifth Amendment. However, recent reports suggest that he could be prepared to hand over some of the document subpoenaed by the panel. Cohen, meanwhile, is alleged to have been involved in trying to create a back-channel between the US and Russia, according to the New York Times newspaper. Had the plan come to fruition, it would have involved a peace agreement between Russia and Ukraine, as well as the lifting of US sanctions against Kremlin officials, the newspaper reported back in February.'Witch Hunt!'Trump urged lawmakers on Wednesday to allow one of his former advisers, Carter Page, to counter-testify against the directors of the FBI and CIA.Read: Trump son-in-law Kushner to cooperate with FBI over Russia investigationThe US president has been dismissive of several inquiries by the FBI and several congressional panels into Russia's alleged meddling in the 2016 presidential election."So now it is reported that the Democrats, who have excoriated Carter Page about Russia, don't want him to testify. He blows away their case against him & now wants to clear his name by showing 'the false or misleading testimony by James Comey, John Brennan...' Witch Hunt!" Trump wrote on Twitter, referring to the former directors of the FBI and CIA.shs, dm/msh (dpa, Reuters)