Extra police were on the streets of Tehran on Thursday, a day after a pair of attacks targeted two iconic locations in Tehran.Reza Seifollahi, deputy secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council, said late Wednesday that the assailants responsible for the attacks were Iranian nationals.At least 13 people were killed and 46 injured in attacks on the parliament complex and mausoleum of revolutionary leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.During the attack on parliament, the self-styled Islamic State militant group claimed responsibility for both assaults. If confirmed, it would mark the group's first attack on Iranian soil.According to Iran's intelligence ministry, five of the attackers had previously fought with the militant group in Raqqa and Mosul.Read more: Saudi Arabia vs. Qatar vs. IranHowever, Iran's political leaders appeared unfazed by the attacks. With parliament in session during the assault, parliamentarians offered images of collective calm, posting selfies with the victory sign as gunshots resounded in the complex."These firecrackers that happened today will not have the slightest effect on the will of the people," said Khomeini's successor, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.'Global problem'Several countries, including Germany, condemned the attacks in the Iranian capital, with Russia saying it showed the need for greater international cooperation to uproot terrorism.Iranian President Hassan Rouhani called for more work to be done at the international level in order to stop the spread of violent extremism."Iran's message as always is that terrorism is a global problem, and unity to fight extremism, violence and terrorism with regional and international cooperation is the most important need of today's world," Rouhani said.Islamic State (IS) - also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh - is an al Qaeda splinter group with militant Sunni Islamist idealogy. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The group's goal is to create an Islamic state, or "caliphate", across Iraq, Syria and beyond.IS is believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world. It controls territory in Iraq and Syria, and its de facto capital is Raqqa, in Syria. However, the group has lost more than a quarter of its territory since January 2015. There are many groups involved in the fight against IS. The United States is leading air strikes by an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia has conducted air strikes in support of the Syrian government. Regional forces, such as the Kurdish Peshmerga (pictured above), are fighting on the ground.One of the group's main sources of income has been oil and gas - it still controls an estimated one third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led air strikes are deliberately targeting this valuable asset. Other means of income include taxes, ransoms and selling looted antiquities.IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The most deadly to date was a suicide bombing this year in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, in which more than 200 people died and many more were injured. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS can carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group.The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artefacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing", and thousands of women from religious minorites have been enslaved. The group also uses social media as a propaganda and recruitment tool.Around six million Syrians have fled abroad as a result of the ongoing conflict - many to neighboring Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, but also further afield to Europe. More than three million Iraqis have been displaced within the country. Author: Rachel Stewart Trump's 'repugnant' remarksAlthough the White House issued a statement condemning the attacks, it also offered an apparent rebuke of Iran, prompting Iranian officials to decry the remarks."We grieve and pray for the innocent victims of the terrorist attacks in Iran, and for the Iranian people, who are going through such challenging times. We underscore that states that sponsor terrorism risk falling victim to the evil they promote," the statement said.The statement drew sharp criticism from the Iranian government, with Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif on Thursday describing it as "repugnant."Under Trump's administration, the United States has sought to isolate Iran. During his first official foreign tripto Saudi Arabia, US President Donald Trump described Iran as a preeminent state sponsor of terrorism.Read more: Trump's policy of isolation against Iran"From Lebanon to Iraq to Yemen, Iran funds, arms and trains terrorist, militias and other extremist groups that spread destruction and chaos across the region," Trump said.Tehran has denied vehemently denied allegations that it sponsors terrorism, instead pointing the blame at Saudi Arabia for funding extremist groups. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eGoU ls/sms (AFP, AP)