With fired FBI director James Comey s testimony on Thursday the focus is on the Senate Intelligence Committee. But that inquiry is only one of five active investigations into the Trump campaign s possible ties to Russia. (08.06.2017) James Comey described how US President Trump demanded loyalty from the former FBI chief and requested an adviser be let off the hook. Trump said he feels "vindicated" by Comey's statements ahead of his Senate testimony. (07.06.2017) CNN has said that former FBI director Comey plans to testify that US President Trump pressured him to drop an investigation into former national security adviser Flynn's Russia ties. The hearing is set for June 8. (01.06.2017) US President Donald Trump has denied reports that he asked ex-FBI Director James Comey to drop a probe into his former national security adviser's links with Russia. Trump has also complained of facing a "witch hunt." (18.05.2017) Ex-FBI director James Comey's testimony is critical in determining whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, a former US federal prosecutor tells DW. Comey is testifying before the Senate. (07.06.2017) Former FBI Director Robert Mueller has been appointed to lead a federal investigation into Russia's alleged election meddling. Many Democrats had called for someone outside the Justice Department to handle the probe. (18.05.2017) Former FBI Director Comey appeared before the US Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday morning, with the US and international media and public closely following the hearing expected to last for several hours.The hearing was divided into an initial open hearing followed by a closed session starting at 1 p.m. local time (1700 UTC) to cover questions related to security-sensitive issues.Senate members hope to obtain answers on the greatest scandal of the Trump administration to date Trump's shock firing of the FBI head and the alleged pressure from the president relating to the probe into Michael Flynn and his contacts with Russia. In a statement published ahead of time, Comey described Trump telling him he expected "loyalty" from him and asking him what can be done to "lift the cloud" of the Russia investigation."It's my judgment that I was fired because of the Russia investigation," Comey told the lawmakers at the public segment of the hearing."I was fired in some way to change, or the endeavor was to change, the way the Russia investigation was being conducted," he added.Comey also said that there was "no doubt" in his mind that the Russian government tried to influence the 2016 election in the US through hacking, but added that he did not believe any of the votes were altered. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eMO0Comey concerned about liesAfter taking an oath, Comey said that he decided to take notes after meeting Trump for the first time due to several factors, one of them being that he was "honestly concerned that [Trump] might lie about the nature of our meeting."Acknowledging reports of their interviews being recorded, Comey commented "Lordy I hope there are tapes."According to Comey, neither Trump nor any administration official asked him to halt the investigation into the alleged Russia collusion.At the same time, Comey said it was "very disturbing" to hear Trump tell him "I hope you can let this go" on the probe into Flynn."I took it as a direction [ ] This is what he wants me to do," he told the lawmakers. "The context and the president's words was what led me to this conclusion."Comey also said that he purposefully leaked his notes on Trump hoping that the media coverage would prompt the authorities to name a special prosecutor. US lawmaker subsequently appointed another ex-FBI head, Robert Mueller, as a special counsel to look into the alleged ties with Russia.White House tried to 'defame' ComeyHe also commented on the one-on-one dinner in January this year, when Trump allegedly asked him if he was interested in staying on as head of the FBI for the full term.Comey said "common sense" told him that Trump was looking to get something in exchange for him keeping his FBI job.Commenting on his firing, the ex-FBI head also said that the president repeatedly told him he was doing a "great job." He also claimed that Trump called him once for no other reason than to praise him and say he hoped he would stay on as FBI chief."So it confused me when I saw on television that the president actually fired me because of the Russian investigation," he said.He also accused the administration of trying to defame him by saying that the FBI was in "disarray" and that Comey lost the trust of his top officials."Those were lies, plain and simple," he told the Committee.President 'not a liar'Comey also openly disputed Trump's account of their meetings, including the White House dinner. Previously, Trump had told the US media that Comey wanted to have dinner with him. The reason, according to Trump, was that Comey wanted to stay on as FBI chief.He said the statement was "untrue," adding that he never initiated the dinner where Trump allegedly asked him for his loyalty.The seventh in a lineage of FBI directors with law degrees, James Comey has shaped politics in the US as the head of the law enforcement agency. But who is the man behind the headlines? From prosecuting an American celebrity to refusing to sanction the NSA's mass surveillance program, DW explores the contentious life of James Comey.Serving as Manhattan's chief federal prosecutor, Comey rose to notoriety in 2002, when he led the prosecution of US celebrity Martha Stewart for securities fraud and obstruction of justice. Stewart, widely known in the US for her cooking and lifestyle shows, served a 5-month jail sentence following the highly-publicized case.In late 2003, Comey was confirmed as the US deputy attorney general, making him the second-highest-ranking official in the Justice Department. Serving under former President George W. Bush, Comey endorsed a memorandum approving the use of 13 enhanced interrogation techniques during the War on Terror, including waterboarding. He later said he lobbied to have the policy toned down. Comey has warned of the consequences of domestic mass surveillance, saying in March: "There is no such thing as absolute privacy in America." While serving as acting attorney general during the hospitalization of John Ashcroft in 2004, he refused to endorse the legality of the NSA's domestic surveillance program, even when pressured by the Bush administration.In 2013, then-President Barack Obama nominated Comey to serve as the seventh director of the FBI. He received the nomination despite being a registered member of the Republican party. Later that year, he received congressional approval to takeover the office. In his installation speech, he said the bureau's work is founded on integrity. "Without integrity, all is lost," he said.In 2015, Comey penned an op-ed on why he required new FBI special agents and intelligence analysts to visit the Holocaust Museum in Washington. He said the reason was to have them understand the consequences of abusing power and to be confronted by the atrocities humans are capable of. "I believe that the Holocaust is the most significant event in human history," he said.In July 2016, Comey announced that the FBI had found no evidence of criminal intention in Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server as state secretary. But days before the presidential election, he issued a letter to lawmakers informing them of new emails deemed "pertinent to the investigation." He later said no evidence was uncovered. Clinton has since blamed Comey for losing the election.On May 9, Trump sent Comey an unusual letter firing the FBI director, cutting short his 10-year mandate to lead the bureau. Given the ongoing FBI-led investigation into election-meddling by Russia, critics have warned that the move may amount to obstruction of justice for undermining the probe. Trump later appeared to threaten Comey over the existence of "tapes" of their conversations.Comey reportedly kept memos of interactions between him and President Donald Trump, which appear to implicate the head of state in attempts to obstruct a federal probe into Russia's alleged involvement in influencing the 2016 election. The day after US media reported on the existence of the memos, the Justice Department named a special counsel to lead the probe amid fears of White House influence.US media have reported that Comey is expected to testify in a public congressional hearing that Trump tried to pressure him into dropping an investigation concerning former national security adviser Michael Flynn. US lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have pushed for Comey to testify on the investigation. But will his testimony have anything new to add? Only time will tell. Author: Lewis Sanders IV Trump spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders defended the president during an off-camera briefing in the White House."I can definitely say the president's not a liar and frankly am insulted by that question" she told reporters, commenting on the Senate hearing.She also commented on Comey refering to possible tapes of his meeting with Trump, saying that she had "no idea" whether President Trump was taping their conversations. Jokingly, she added she would "try to look under the couch" for the tapes.Comey stops short of accusing Trump of obstructionThe former FBI boss also praised Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who has been appointed to oversee the inquiry into the alleged ties between Trump's aides and Russia. Testifying before the Committee, he said he had "high confidence" that Mueller would "turn over all the rocks" and find out all necessary information before he is done with his inquries.However, Comey refused to say whether he believed that Trump engaged into obstruction of justice, saying it was "Bob Mueller's job to sort that out."Comey also said that he kept his conversations with Trump secret from the agents probing Flynn. If the agents knew about Trump's alleged pressure, it would have a "real chilling effect" on their work, Comey said.McCain tries to shift focusThe Senate Intelligence Committee consists of both Democratic and Republican lawmakers, each of whom was allotted seven minutes to question Comey.Arizona senator and a former presidential candidate John McCain also questioned Comey, but surprisingly focused his questions on the Hillary Clinton election campaign. McCain repeatedly expressed confusion as he attempted to establish a link between Hillary Clinton's emails on one side, and the alleged Russian ties with the Trump team.Comey replied he was "bit confused" by the line of inquiry and dismissed the connection between the two.Trump surrogates attackDonald Trump's private lawyer, Marc Kasowitz, responded to Comey's testimony with a statement to the public.Addressing reporters in Washington, Kasowitz claimed that Trump "never pressured" Comey and "never sought to impede" the Russia probe.Kasowitz also denied that Trump told Comey "I need loyalty" or asked him to "let go" of Michael Flynn.The attorney also accused the ex-FBI boss of "surreptitiously and unilaterally" leaking "privileged" information to the press."We will leave it to the appropriate authorities to determine whether these leaks should be prosecuted," Kasowitz said, while also focusing on Comey's statement that Trump himself was not under FBI investigation."As he said yesterday, the president feels completely vindicated and is eager to continue moving forward with his agenda with this public cloud removed," Kasowitz said.Republican congressman and speaker of the US House of Representatives, Paul Ryan, told the press that Trump "probably did not know" about protocols regulating the ties between the FBI and the White House."The president is new at this," Ryan told reporters. "He is learning as he goes.""I'm not saying it's an acceptable excuse. It's just my observation."