President Ashraf Ghani spoke Tuesday at the opening of the so-called "Kabul Process," an international conference aiming to set the stage for peace talks and restore security in Afghanistan.Ghani told diplomats from two dozen countries, the EU, UN and NATO that he was prepared to give the Taliban one "last chance" to participate in negotiations."This is not an open-ended offer," he said. "Time is running out... this is the last chance: take it or face consequences." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2duJqPast attempts at peace have failed. The Taliban, who has been waging a 16-year insurgency and refers to itself as a government in exile, says it won't negotiate with Afghan officials until all foreign forces leave the country.US-led international troops ended their combat mission in Afghanistan at the end of 2014, switching to a support and counterterrorism role.In the two years since then, the Taliban has made steady gains, seizing control of several districts in different parts of the country.Death toll tops 150Ghani told diplomats that Afghanistan is on the front line of a global war against violence and called for a new security alliance to tackle common terrorist threats. "Taliban-sponsored terrorism is creating a platform that is bringing terrorists from all over the region to Afghanistan," Ghani said. "What we need is an agreement on regional security."Highlighting the volatile situation in the country, a rocket struck an Indian diplomatic compound in Kabul as the conference kicked off. Later on Tuesday, a suspected bomb outside a mosque in the western city of Herat killed seven people, police said.Afghans sort through the wreckage after an explosion at the historic Sunni mosque in HeratLast week, a suicide truck bombing in Kabul killed scores of Afghan civilians. Ghani said the death toll in that attack had risen to 150, making it the deadliest single attack in the country since the 2001 US-led invasion to topple the Taliban.The violence has added to mounting fears that the US-backed Afghan government cannot contain the Taliban or other Islamist insurgent groups without international support.The US Charge d'Affaires Hugo Llorens, who is overseeing the American embassy in Kabul, said the Kabul conference was a chance to send the message that "the enemies of Afghanistan cannot win." Thomas Ruttig, co-director of the Afghanistan Analysts Network, was less optimistic. "Signing mutual non-interference or anti-terror support agreements won't change anything," he said, noting that similar accords had been signed in the past.nm/kms (Reuters, AFP, AP, dpa)A massive truck bomb killed at least 90 people in the Afghan capital Kabul on May 31, 2017. The target of the attack was Kabul's heavily fortified diplomatic area in the "Green Zone." The German embassy in the area was extensively damaged. No group claimed responsibility for the attack but the Taliban and the self-styled "Islamic State" (IS) have staged large attacks in the city in the past.The blast in Kabul's diplomatic enclave was the latest in a long line of attacks on the Afghan capital. Earlier in May, eight foreign soldiers were killed in a bomb attack claimed by IS. In March, insurgents attacked an Afghan military hospital in Kabul's diplomatic district, killing 38 people and injuring more than 70 others, namely patients, doctors and nurses.In April, Afghanistan's Taliban vowed to ramp up assaults on coalition and Afghan security forces, announcing the start of their annual spring offensive. The group said they were changing tactics for this year's operation, naming it "Operation Mansour" after the group's late leader who was killed in 2016 in a US drone strike.US President Donald Trump has yet to announce his Afghanistan policy. Afghanistan expert Michael Kugleman told DW Trump's Afghanistan policy will in many ways be quite similar to that of the Obama administration. "Like Obama, Trump will likely also express support for the idea of reconciliation between the Taliban and the Afghan government," said Kugelman.But the Taliban have shown no interest in peace talks. Afghanistan observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Islamists now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001.President Ghani said last year his country "no longer expects Pakistan to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table." Experts say Islamabad uses Taliban militants as proxy jihadists to counter Indian influence in Afghanistan. Former Pakistani Taliban spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan (pictured), was recently captured and pardoned by Islamabad after he accused India of supporting the Taliban. Apart from the Taliban, the Afghan warlords excercise massive influence in the country. Earlier in May, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul.Russia has increased its involvement in Afghanistan. Moscow had maintained an apparent distance from the Afghan conflict for many years but a new geopolitical situation is emerging in the region, and it seems that Russia has decided not to remain "neutral" in the protracted conflict. In the past few months, Russia has hosted a number of Afghanistan conferences involving China, Pakistan and Iran.In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams