Paris, Brussels, Berlin, Manchester and now another attack in London? European cities have been increasingly targeted by Islamist extremists in recent years. (04.06.2017) Police have made a fresh arrest tied to last week's attack in central London. With security in the spotlight ahead of elections, the UK's prime minister has proposed undermining human rights to improve public safety. (07.06.2017) The bomber who carried out the Manchester attack was in Germany days beforehand, according to media sources. Salman Abedi and his family led a life on the move, and began to regularly travel between Libya and Britain. (25.05.2017) At least eight people were injured, two of them seriously, when the driver rammed his car into passers-by in front of Amsterdam's central train station on Saturday."There is no indication whatsoever that this is a terrorist attack," police spokeswoman Marjolein Koek said.According to Dutch media, the car had been incorrectly parked on the square in front of the station. When the police approached the vehicle, the driver attempted to speed away but apparently lost control of car, and drove into the pedestrians. The black Peugeot than crashed into a nearby wall.The police detained the man, who appeared to have been "unwell," officials said. The authorities will continue the investigation, according to the police.Fresh memories of ManchesterSeveral ambulances and police vehicles were quickly deployed at the scene in central Amsterdam, with Europe still reacting to deadly terror strikes in London and Manchester. Islamist terrorists have increasingly been using vehicles as weapons in crowded urban areas.In a separate incident Friday, Dutch police arrested a 29-year-old man who was spotted filming a concert outside the Philips Stadium in southern Eindhoven. The authorities had information that the man might had been radicalized, and decided to take him to custody as he "was filming and had no reasonable explanation for what he was doing."Less than three weeks ago, a suicide bomber killed 22 people at a crowded Ariana Grande concert in Manchester.Counter-terrorism officers near the scene of the London Bridge attack. Police continue to cordon off an area around London Bridge and Borough Market. British Prime Minister May hinted at a new approach to terrorism saying, "We cannot and must not pretend that things can continue as they are."Police forensic officers work near Borough Market in London on Sunday as police continue their investigations following the June 3 terror attack. Police said the public would notice an increased presence of security personnel over the next few days and weeks.Members of the police and ambulance service assess the scene on London Bridge on June 4. They said their investigation would continue until at least Monday morning. This is the bridge where Saturday's terror attack began.Prime Minister Theresa May spoke at Downing Street after chairing a meeting of the government's emergency Cobra committee. She said, "We believe we are experiencing a new trend in the threat we face as terrorism breeds terrorism."A police officer carries a bunch of flowers with a message of sympathy near Borough Market. An officer armed with a baton tried to stop the knife-wielding attackers and suffered serious injuries. Twenty-one people were reported to be in critical condition.Flowers and messages behind police cordon tape near Borough Market after the attack that left 7 people dead and many injured on Saturday night. Author: Jo Harper dj/jm (AFP, Reuters, dpa, AP) 