Indian mining conglomerate Adani has approved plans for the contentious Carmichael coal mine project in northeast Australia, despite warnings from environmentalists that it will further damage the Great Barrier Reef."We are still facing activists. But we are committed to this project. We are committed to regional Queensland and we are committed to addressing energy poverty in India," Chairman Gautam Adani said Tuesday.Work on the project is expected to begin in September, though the company still needs to secure billons of dollars in funding.Loans from the Australian government have yet to be approved, and several major Australian banks have ruled out financing.Environmental activists have vowed to consider all legal options to stop the project, and have called on all levels of government to reject funding for the project.The Great Barrier Reef, a UNESCO World Heritage site, is under threat from climate changePolicy paradoxThe coal mine is planned to cover an area of 447 square kilometers (about 173 square miles) and will include six open-cast pits and five underground mines - making it one of world's largest. Expected to produce 60 million tons of thermal coal a year for export to India, the mine is set to operate for up to 60 years."Now the time for waiting is over and the time for doing is beginning," said Australian Resources Minister Matt Canavan on Tuesday, indicating that the project would pave the way for future mines in the region.The government commitment to coal is a stark contrast to plans to provide "sustainable energy" for the region, announced by Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk on Monday, which included several initiatives aimed at supporting renewable energy and climate policies.'Doomed to fail'Activists have long warned about the project's environmental risks, pointing out the threat to the nearby Great Barrier Reef and the fact that the massive coal mine is incompatible with Australia's commitment to the Paris Agreement on climate change.The project has been challenged in the courts by indigenous landowners and activists, who fear it will further damage the UNESCO World Heritage-listed reef, already suffering from warming oceans.In 2016, the reef saw its worst bleaching event in history, which is being blamed at least in part on global warming.The United Nations agency said Saturday that "climate change remains the most significant overall threat to the future" of the 2,300-kilometer (1,400-mile) coral expanse, one of the top two tourist attractions in Australia.The site, about the size of Italy, generates around 7 billion Australian dollars ($5.2 billion or 4.7 billion euros) in income per year and supports 70,000 jobs in sectors such as tourism, according to the Australian Climate Council.Greenpeace Australia said Tuesday's decision was "toxic" and a "disaster for the climate," a charge echoed by WWF-Australia chief Dermot O'Gorman."Carbon pollution from burning coal is the single largest cause of global warming," he said. "The Australian and Queensland governments should be investing in actions that protect the reef, not a new mine doomed to fail, that will hasten the reef's destruction."Some 2,500 scientists, policymakers and managers came together in Honolulu in June 2016 for the world's largest summit dedicated to the future of coral reefs. With coral reefs threatened by global warming, participants at the 13th International Coral Reef Symposium are calling for a joint rescue effort.The event gathered guests from 97 countries, including the presidents of Palau, Micronesia, and the Marshall Islands. Coral reefs are a key source of income in those countries, mostly through tourism.The Pacific nations are worried about the future of their tourist hotspots, as coral reefs face so-called "bleaching" due to rising sea temperatures. "If our coral reefs are further degraded, then our reef-dependent communities will suffer and be displaced," leaders of Palau, Micronesia, and the Marshall Islands said in an open letter.Bleaching happens when coral is stressed by hot ocean waters or other changes in the environment. In response, corals may release tiny symbiotic algae which drains them of color. More importantly, bleaching affects their ability to feed and reproduce.Severe or prolonged bleaching might kill off corals entirely. Scientists have detected bleached coral in the past two years in oceans around the world. They expect the process to continue thought 2016.The 2,300-kilometer-long (1,429-mile-long) Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest coral reef system and its largest living structure. It is also among Australia's main tourist attractions, generating around $3.9 billion (3.5 billion euros) annually.Almost one-half of the coral in the reef's northern third have died in the past three months, according to James Cook University professor Terry Hughes. The most affected area is remote and unpolluted, with very little fishing and no coastal development. "That's an absolute catastrophe," Hughes said. "There's nowhere to hide from climate change."Despite the bad news, scientists claim the problems can be managed with proper funding and political backing. "We are not ready to write the obituary for coral reefs," Professor Hughes said. The scientific community at the conference pledged to work with leaders across the world in order to "curb the continued loss of coral reefs." Author: Darko Janjevic (with AP) cmk/sad (AFP, AP, dpa)