Memorials, a moment of silence, and a "minute of noise" have been held to commemorate the one-year anniversary of the Brussels terror attacks. The triple bomb blasts killed 32 people and wounded more than 300 others. (22.03.2017) Belgian police have arrested several suspects and opened a terrorism probe linked to the Paris terror attacks, in which 129 people were killed. Italy and other European countries have bolstered security in response. (14.11.2015) Seven men who formed part of a group that included one of the perpetrators of the Paris attacks have gone on trial in France. They claim they went to Syria to do aid work and were coerced into joining "Islamic State." (30.05.2016) A Paris court has jailed seven men who went to Syria for "Islamic State" training, including the brother of a Bataclan concert hall attacker. Belgium has extradited to France two suspects linked to November's attack. (06.07.2016) Named as Yassine A., the 30-year-old Belgian national has been formally charged following a "judicial inquiry" into the 2015 Paris attacks for his involvement in murders of a terrorist nature and being a member of a terrorist group.In a statement on Friday, the Office of the Federal Prosecutor in Belgium said a pre-trial chamber in Brussels ordered a one-month detention after Yassine A. was charged with "terrorist assassinations" and of being "a leader in the activities of a terrorist group."Extremist suspects have their cases reviewed monthly until their trials; such periods of custody are almost always extended.Related to suicide bombersYassine A. was a cousin of two suicide bombers, the brothers Ibrahim and Khalid Bakraoui, who attacked Zaventem airport and the Maalbeek metro station in Brussels, killing 32 people and leaving more than 320 wounded in March 2016.He was arrested just days after the Brussels attacks and found in possession of keys to a hideout used by the bombers who carried out the attacks in both Brussels and Paris, Belgian broadcaster RTL reported.The defendant is also the brother of one of the supposed leaders of the Paris attacks, Oussama Atar, who is believed to be based in Syria. In November 2015, gunmen and bombers in Paris targeted the Bataclan concert venue, the national soccer stadium and sidewalk cafes, leaving 130 dead and 368 people injured, 100 of them seriously.Security alertsFrance and Belgium remain on high alert following the attacks. The French government continues to operate under a state of emergency, which was extended through July 15 to cover parliamentary elections in June as well as the French national holiday on July 14.The state of emergency allows the French government to prevent the circulation of individuals and to create zones of protection and security.jm/sms (AP, AFP) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2SdMc