Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Egypt on Monday cut ties with Qatar over concerns, with Yemen, Libya and Maldives later following suit.Egypt's Foreign Ministry gave Qatar's ambassador to Cairo 48 hours to leave the country and ordered its envoy in Doha to return within the same period. Bahrain also recalled its ambassador and ordered Qatari diplomats to leave within two days.Saudi Arabia closed its border and cut off air and sea links with the Arab nation, saying it aimed to protect itself from "the dangers of terrorism and extremism."Read more: 'Discord in the Persian Gulf: Qatar and the Muslim Brotherhood'Meanwhile, the UAE accused Qatar of "destabilizing" the region with its "support, funding and embrace of terrorist, extremist and sectarian organizations," while Cairo accused Qatar of supporting "terrorist" groups such as the Muslim Brotherhood.Qatar responded to the Arab states' decision, saying it would "not affect the normal lives of citizens and residents.""The measures are unjustified and based on claims and allegations that have no basis in fact," the foreign ministry said in a statement. "The aim is clear, and it is to impose guardianship on the state. This by itself is a violation of its (Qatar's) sovereignty as a state."From food security to economic impactBusiness analysts have warned that even if the diplomatic crisis may serve to hurt Qatar's economy, it could also have adverse effects on the countries involvedStock markets in Qatar, Dubai and other Gulf centers fell following the announcement, with analysts warning of a potential knock-on effect"Overall, it's not good. I don't think that the region has been in such turmoil so close to home. And I think everyone is speculating how far these steps will go forward," said Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief executive of Abu Dhabi's NBAD securities"Everyone is hoping that there will be intervention by wise people and things will cool down. But what we have seen is a gradual escalation," he addedMeanwhile, Iran's chairman of the union of exporters of agricultural products, Reza Nourani, said that Tehran could export food to Qatar by sea if Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries imposed an embargo.Simon Mabon, international relations lecturer at Lancaster University and research associate at the UK-based Foreign Policy Center, told DW that US President Donald Trump's visit to Saudi Arabia effectively strengthened Gulf states confidence, saying it appeared as if Trump had given them a "carte blanche" to do what they want with Doha.US President Trump visits two bastions of relative calm in the war-battered Middle East: Saudi Arabia and Israel. In a caf in Riyadh, Nayef al-Hayzan explained why he is confident about the US president's trip: "I expect that Trump's visit will have a positive impact on the Saudi economy, and discussions are expected to tackle the problems in Syria."In Jerusalem, Israel, falafel shop owner Ovad Chen has a more fatalistic view: "I see myself as a very simple person and I believe that at the end of the day, God controls everything. Therefore, it doesn t really matter what Trump is saying or doing in the Middle East or anywhere else."All 50 Muslim states whose leaders Trump will meet in the Saudi capital are menaced by the rise of the so-called Islamic State. Ali Bassem, an Iraqi fighter the on the frontline in Mosul is enthusiastic: "He is a hero. He got [IS] out of Iraq. He is cooperative with the Iraqi people and we and the Americans are one nation. We are brothers."In his pub in Damascus, Syria, Somar Hazim explained his views: "His Syria policy is based on interests, in the sense that there's no clear methodology. As for the issue of arming the Kurds, I do not oppose this as long as the goal is fighting a common enemy of the Syrian state, which is [IS], provided that these weapons are not exploited to create a partitioned idea of Syria."Sherine Haji, a female fighter in the Kurdish YPG militia rests in a hospital in Syria. She has a more critical view: "The plan to arm the YPG is a decision taken late. If this support was happening in the first place, the advances would have been quicker. Now I'm wounded, I've lost two legs, I'm worried for my people. This must end, there must be a free and peaceful life in this country."An anonymous female fighter from the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP), in the southern Gaza Strip remarked: "Trump is a man of war, he works on spreading war, chaos and killing among people. Like other presidents who came before him, I do not see he will bring about peace or any good to the Palestinian people. I see that there is another war coming."Attitudes are also colored by the actions of Trump's first months in power, among them his attempt to ban citizens of some mostly Muslim countries from traveling to the US. Marla Awad from Damascus was upset: "What matters to me was one very bad decision - his refusal to allow Syrians to immigrate to America is racist. Traveling was a dream of mine to fulfill my ambitions to study and work."In Egypt, Mubarak Mashali, a student at Cairo University, was very skeptical, "I think Trump is going to ruin things and make them worse than they already are throughout the whole Middle East."A different attitude was expressed by Sattar Muhsin Ali in his store in Baghdad, Iraq: "I think the core policy of Trump is focusing on eliminating terrorism and drying out its financial sources in the world and curbing the terror-supporting states. Iraq suffered a lot from the policy of former American administrations which led to the spread of chaos and finally to the emergence of [IS]."In Algiers, Algeria, dates seller Djamel Bouktech is pragmatic: "I think it's just a simple courtesy visit because the Arabs of the Middle East are and will always be friends and strong allies of the USA. This will have a positive effect for the allies and a negative for the others in the Middle East in the long term because of the fragility of the region." Trump's decision to launch cruise missiles against a Syrian airbase to punish Damascus for a chemical weapons attack was analyzed by Lara Shahin in Amman: "Trump's decision to strike at the airbase was a surprise move that raised my hopes the US president will take bolder decisions in the future that would end President Bashar al-Assad's rule and allow me to return home to a democratic country."In his shop in Beirut, Lebanon, George Gharib doesn't expect much: "I do not expect any change in American policies towards the region, especially since President Trump is committed to moving the US Embassy to Jerusalem and there is no intention to pressure Israel. He will be like all previous presidents who came before him with bias and abiding by Israeli interests." Author: Nadine Berghausen ls/tj (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa)