Trump reportedly on Tuesday granted the Pentagon authority to set troop levels in Afghanistan, a move that could lead to the deployment of thousands more soldiers, an anonymous source told the French news agency AFP.US Defense Secretary Jim Mattis had told frustrated Senators earlier on Tuesday that the US was "not winning" the war in Afghanistan, amidst a push to send more troops to stabilize the country. The call for additional soldiers comes as Mattis prepares to unveil a new Afghanistan strategy in July.Speaking to the Senate Armed Services Committee at a hearing on the Pentagon's budget, Mattis warned that the "Taliban had a good year last year, they are trying to have a good one this year.""Right now I believe the enemy is surging," he said, referring to the Taliban as well as the so-called "Islamic State" also trying to gain a foothold in the country.Read: Afghan soldier kills three US soldiers in shootingMattis' plea comes a few months after NATO commander in Afghanistan, General John Nicholson, warned "a few thousand" more troops would be necessary to roll back gains made by the Taliban in recent years.A massive truck bomb killed at least 90 people in the Afghan capital Kabul on May 31, 2017. The target of the attack was Kabul's heavily fortified diplomatic area in the "Green Zone." The German embassy in the area was extensively damaged. No group claimed responsibility for the attack but the Taliban and the self-styled "Islamic State" (IS) have staged large attacks in the city in the past.The blast in Kabul's diplomatic enclave was the latest in a long line of attacks on the Afghan capital. Earlier in May, eight foreign soldiers were killed in a bomb attack claimed by IS. In March, insurgents attacked an Afghan military hospital in Kabul's diplomatic district, killing 38 people and injuring more than 70 others, namely patients, doctors and nurses.In April, Afghanistan's Taliban vowed to ramp up assaults on coalition and Afghan security forces, announcing the start of their annual spring offensive. The group said they were changing tactics for this year's operation, naming it "Operation Mansour" after the group's late leader who was killed in 2016 in a US drone strike.US President Donald Trump has yet to announce his Afghanistan policy. Afghanistan expert Michael Kugleman told DW Trump's Afghanistan policy will in many ways be quite similar to that of the Obama administration. "Like Obama, Trump will likely also express support for the idea of reconciliation between the Taliban and the Afghan government," said Kugelman.But the Taliban have shown no interest in peace talks. Afghanistan observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Islamists now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001.President Ghani said last year his country "no longer expects Pakistan to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table." Experts say Islamabad uses Taliban militants as proxy jihadists to counter Indian influence in Afghanistan. Former Pakistani Taliban spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan (pictured), was recently captured and pardoned by Islamabad after he accused India of supporting the Taliban. Apart from the Taliban, the Afghan warlords excercise massive influence in the country. Earlier in May, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul.Russia has increased its involvement in Afghanistan. Moscow had maintained an apparent distance from the Afghan conflict for many years but a new geopolitical situation is emerging in the region, and it seems that Russia has decided not to remain "neutral" in the protracted conflict. In the past few months, Russia has hosted a number of Afghanistan conferences involving China, Pakistan and Iran.In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams Although former US President Barack Obama was praised for the decision to wind down US involvement in the highly unpopular conflict, insurgents have used the troop pullback to make significant military gains.But his successor Donald Trump was also under fire for his strategy, or lack thereof, on Tuesday. "We're now six months into this administration, we still haven't got a strategy for Afghanistan," said Republican Senator John McCain. "Unless we get a strategy from you, you're going to get a strategy from us."Read: Taliban civil servant has role in new Afghan governmentSecretary Mattis, a former marine combat commander in Afghanistan, characterized the current phase of the war as that of "frequent skirmishing," necessitating "a change in approach" that he hopes to formally announce next month.The Afghanistan war is the longest conflict in American history, already 16 years underway without a clear end in sight. The US currently has around 8,400 troops in the country. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2bE82es/rt/jbh (AP, AFP)