Three back-to-back explosions rocked the Afghan capital, Kabul, on Saturday, killing at least 18 people, according to local media with reports that the death toll would likely rise as rescuers work their way through the rubble."Many people have been killed and wounded at the funeral of Salim Ezadyar," the son of a prominent Afghan politician, witness Abdul Wudood told the AFP news agency.Ezadyar was killed Friday during violent clashes between police and angry protesters demanding President Ashraf Ghani's resignation over his government's failure to provide security in the wake of Wednesday's massive bombing that killed more than 90 people and injured hundreds in Kabul's heavily guarded diplomatic area.Shadi Khan Saif, DW's correspondent in Kabul, said Afghanistan's chief executive, Abdullah Abdullah, was at Ezadyar's funeral."A number of Afghan officials, including Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah and Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani, were present at Ezadyar's funeral. Both of them are unhurt," Saif told DW.A police official told the DPA news agency that it was unclear if the explosions were suicide bombings or previously placed explosives.Read: Afghans rail against Kabul, Islamabad over deadly blast Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2e0MZKabul on lockdownOn Saturday, the Afghan capital was in a state of lockdown as military vehicles patrolled the city in an attempt to prevent a repeat of Friday's protest.Afghan officials had warned people protesting Wednesday's diplomatic area bombing to avoid public assembly due to the threat of a terrorist assault."We have intelligence reports that our enemies are trying again to carry out attacks on gatherings and demonstrations," said Kabul garrison commander Gul Nabi Ahmadzai. "We hope that people will stay away from protests."More than 1,000 demonstrators took to the streets in Kabul on Thursday and Friday, many carrying pictures of bomb victims and chanting slogans against the leaders of the national unity government, President Ghani and Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah. Protesters demanded answers from the government over the perceived intelligence failure leading to the attack.As a demonstration in the city turned violent, police fired into the crowd, killing at least three protesters, according to local media reports."Any government attempt to disrupt our fair and just demonstration will show their complicity with terrorist groups and the perpetrators of Wednesday's attack," said Asif Ashna, a spokesman for the protesters."It is the duty of the government to ensure security to the protesters... and the government will be held responsible for any violence," he added.No militant group claimed responsibility for the Wednesday attack, but the Taliban and self-styled "Islamic State" (IS) militant groups have staged large-scale assaults in Kabul in the past.- Iranians show solidarity with Afghan neighbors after Kabul attack- Afghanistan: sent back to a war zone- Opinion: Observe and reflect on AfghanistanA massive truck bomb killed at least 90 people in the Afghan capital Kabul on May 31, 2017. The target of the attack was Kabul's heavily fortified diplomatic area in the "Green Zone." The German embassy in the area was extensively damaged. No group claimed responsibility for the attack but the Taliban and the self-styled "Islamic State" (IS) have staged large attacks in the city in the past.The blast in Kabul's diplomatic enclave was the latest in a long line of attacks on the Afghan capital. Earlier in May, eight foreign soldiers were killed in a bomb attack claimed by IS. In March, insurgents attacked an Afghan military hospital in Kabul's diplomatic district, killing 38 people and injuring more than 70 others, namely patients, doctors and nurses.In April, Afghanistan's Taliban vowed to ramp up assaults on coalition and Afghan security forces, announcing the start of their annual spring offensive. The group said they were changing tactics for this year's operation, naming it "Operation Mansour" after the group's late leader who was killed in 2016 in a US drone strike.US President Donald Trump has yet to announce his Afghanistan policy. Afghanistan expert Michael Kugleman told DW Trump's Afghanistan policy will in many ways be quite similar to that of the Obama administration. "Like Obama, Trump will likely also express support for the idea of reconciliation between the Taliban and the Afghan government," said Kugelman.But the Taliban have shown no interest in peace talks. Afghanistan observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Islamists now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001.President Ghani said last year his country "no longer expects Pakistan to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table." Experts say Islamabad uses Taliban militants as proxy jihadists to counter Indian influence in Afghanistan. Former Pakistani Taliban spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan (pictured), was recently captured and pardoned by Islamabad after he accused India of supporting the Taliban. Apart from the Taliban, the Afghan warlords excercise massive influence in the country. Earlier in May, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul.Russia has increased its involvement in Afghanistan. Moscow had maintained an apparent distance from the Afghan conflict for many years but a new geopolitical situation is emerging in the region, and it seems that Russia has decided not to remain "neutral" in the protracted conflict. In the past few months, Russia has hosted a number of Afghanistan conferences involving China, Pakistan and Iran.In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams Afghans blame PakistanAfter initial investigations, Afghan authorities said the Pakistan-based militant Haqqani network carried out the attack, and that the Pakistani military's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) security agency was also responsible. A source close to the Afghan presidential palace said Ghani had signed an order to execute 11 imprisoned Haqqani network and Taliban convicts following the attack.Rahmatullah Nabil, the former chief of Afghanistan's National Directorate of Security intelligence agency, alleged that Pakistan has been "playing a deadly game in Afghanistan.""Pakistan wants to find new support for its proxy jihadists. It also wants to convey a message to the US that without Pakistan's help, Washington is going to fail in Afghanistan," Nabil told DW.Pakistan on Thursday dismissed the allegations that its intelligence agencies were behind Wednesday's truck attack. "We reject the baseless allegations. The accusatory approach is unhelpful towards efforts for peace," Foreign Office spokesperson Nafees Zakria said at a weekly news briefing in Islamabad.