Psychiatrist Joachim Bauer says accused terrorist Beate Zsch pe suffered a difficult childhood. DW's Marcel F rstenau was in the Munich courtroom, and he doubts whether that assessment will mitigate her punishment. (21.05.2017) Beate Zsch pe is presenting herself as an innocent who sought to keep her NSU accomplices from committing murder. Her explanation is a desperate attempt to save what cannot be saved, says DW's Marcel F rstenau. (09.12.2015) Thieves have been blamed for besmirching the memory of racist murder victims by stealing park benches in Germany's eastern city of Zwickau. The city was home to the far-right NSU terror group before its 2011 unmasking. (08.11.2016) Members of the families of two men who were killed by the right-wing terror cell the "National-Socialist Underground" (NSU) are now suing over multiple investigative failures, German media reported on Sunday.The district court in Nuremberg confirmed to news agency DPA that two cases filed against the German federal government and the states of Thuringia and Bavaria are pending.German public broadcaster ARD also reported that the plaintiffs are family members of the NSU's first murder victim, flower-seller Enver Simsek, and the group's sixth victim, kebab shop owner Ismail Yasar.Simsek and Yasar were allegedly shot dead by two of the NSU's members, Uwe Mundlos and Uwe B hnhardt, in Nuremberg in 2000 and in 2005, respectively.The NSU carried out a series of xenophobic and violent crimes between 2000 and 2007, including 10 murders, two bombings and 15 bank robberies.A third NSU member, Beate Zsch pe, is accused of being involved in the crimes and for helping cover the men's tracks after the murders. Mundlos and B hnhardt were found dead in November 2011 in an apparent murder-suicide."First, the Nazis destroyed our lives because the state could not or did not want to protect us," Simsek's son Abdulkerim told DPA."Then the state betrayed us once more," he said in reference to how the police treated his family following his father's murder. Investigators have been accused of being slow to follow leads pointing toward far-right involvement in the murders and criticized for limiting investigations to organized crime ties among immigrants to Germany.Throughout Zsch pe's Munich trial - now in its fourth year - and several parliamentary inquiries, it became apparent that authorities wasted years chasing false leads and putting the victims' relatives under surveillance.The families of Enver Simsek (top left) and Ismail Yasar (second from left on bottom) are seeking justice from the German stateLawyer: Deaths could have been preventedBoth families are seeking 50,000 euros ($55,900) per family member in damages. The lawyer representing both families, Mehmet Daimag ler, told DPA that the complaints are based on "mishaps in the search for the underground NSU trio."Daimag ler argued that both federal and state authorities could have arrested Mundlos, B hnhardt and Zsch pe in 1998 and at the latest in 2000, thereby preventing the subsequent murders.Furthermore, the state gave hundreds of thousands of euros to informants who used the money to support the neo-Nazi trio."Our case is based on the findings of numerous investigations" both from parliamentary inquiries and the evidence presented in the ongoing trial against Zsch pe in Munich, Daimag ler said.The families of other NSU murder victims are expected to file similar complaints. Daimag ler added that should the case prove too difficult in German court, he is prepared to take the case to a foreign court and sue the German government from there.For years, neo-Nazis of the right-wing organization National Socialist Underground (NSU) were killing people across Germany. The suspects: Uwe Mundlos, Uwe B hnhardt (center) and Beate Zsch pe. Their victims: eight people of Turkish origin, one Greek man and a German policewoman. Their motive: obvious xenophobia. Until 2011, the German public was not aware of the scope of their crimes.The murder spree was uncovered on November 4, 2011 when Mundlos and B hnhardt robbed a bank in the east German town of Eisenach. For the first time, they failed. Police officers surrounded the caravan in which the two men were holed up. A later investigation concluded that Mundlos first shot and killed B hnhardt, then set the caravan on fire and killed himself.Shortly after the death of B hnhardt and Mundlos there was an explosion at Fr hlingsstra e 26 in Zwickau, in the state of Saxony. Beate Zsch pe lived at that address together with the two bank robbers. Zsch pe allegedly set the house on fire to destroy evidence. Four days later, she turned herself in to the police. The terror suspect has been in pre-trial custody since that day.In the ruins of the Zwickau flat, police officers found a self-made video in which the terror cell claimed responsibility under the name of the NSU, the National-Socialist Underground. The 15-minute video shows crime scenes and pictures of the victims killed by the right-wing terrorist group between 2000 and 2007.Famous cartoon character The Pink Panther hosts the amateur video, which is full of slogans of hatred against people with an immigrant background and which mocks the murder victims. Before her arrest, Zsch pe allegedly sent out copies of the video in which the NSU claimed responsibility for the crimes.Until 2011, the term "d ner murders" was frequently used when reporting about the killings. Nothing was known about the connection between the individual cases, nor about the motive. There were rumors the victims were linked to the drug scene. But the NSU's video left no doubt. The term "d ner murders" was chosen as Germany's "Unwort des Jahres" (doublespeak of the year) in 2011."The findings made by our security authorities so far show no indication of a terrorist background, but of a criminal milieu," said German Interior Minister Otto Schily on June 10, 2004. A day earlier, a pipe bomb explosion in Cologne left 22 people injured and many shops damaged. In 2011, it became clear: the NSU s right-wing terrorists were also behind the Cologne bombing.On February 23, 2012, Germany commemorated the victims. At the ceremony at a Berlin concert hall, the focus was on the relatives of the victims. Semiya Simsek (right), the daughter of the murdered flower stand owner Enver Simsek, gave an emotional speech. German Chancellor Angela Merkel made an official apology to the victims and promised them that all questions would be answered.On November 4, 2012, exactly a year after the terror cell was uncovered, people in many German cities staged solidarity demonstrations against right-wing extremism. The protesters called for thorough investigations into the racially motivated murders - which in their view was not happening fast enough."Dortmund is a colorful, tolerant and welcoming town and opposes right-wing extremism!" This statement was made by mayor Ullrich Sierau at the unveiling of the memorial stone for NSU victim Mehmet Kubasik in September 2012. The memorial was set up just meters away from the kiosk in which Kubasik was killed on April 4, 2006. Author: Anna Peters / nh