It's usually a good idea when walking around town to look up and ahead. Occasionally you might also like to look left and right - for instance, while crossing a road. So put those phones away and soak up your environment. In Lindau, look up and you might even learn something.This small town on Lake Constance in southern Germany has a new "Science Trail," which aims to explain the science behind the discoveries that have won Nobel Prizes. There's even an app to go with it. So, okay, you can get those phones out again.There are two bits to Lindau - a mainland and a small island that takes all of 15 minutes to walk from one side to the other. The island has hosted an annual meeting of Nobel Laureates since 1951.Young scientists have joined the Nobel laureates for years now. They talk future discoveries and, heck, there's an element of hero worship too. Some of the science luminaries come every year - it's a chance to stay in touch, but it's also like Lindau is a commune-come-holiday home for them. And the laureates have left their mark.As every year passes the Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting seeps deeper into the foundations of this old cobbled town. And with the unveiling of the new science trail, the meetings are doing that in a very real sense.The science trail consists of 18 "knowledge pylons," sunk deep into the ground. They are dotted around the town - 15 on the island, three on the mainland, and three to come later in the year on nearby Mainau Island, apparently. So that's 21 in total. Part of the science trail is strewn with rubble - the iconic "Inselhalle," where the meetings are normally held, is under re-construction. The work has been progressing slowly for 12-18 months. But the meetings' organizers say the trail is pretty much set.Talking to two maintenance men on Wednesday (28.6.2017), I was told not all the pylons were ready. They were giving the ones that are ready a last minute polish before Thursday's opening.They showed me a map of the pylons on their maintenance route - but I only managed to find seven. Perhaps that's my poor eyesight. But it did feel like finding the pylons was like going on a hunt - you go searching for clues down the town's narrow alleyways and if you're lucky you'll walk into one of these pylons and find a few answers to life.In the Stadtgarten, for example, you can learn about cancer medicine, dangerous mutations in the body, or photosynthesis.Elsewhere, you can read about the Nobel Laureates themselves. And at each of the stations you can plug into the matrix on your phone via a science trail app.The app will guide you from pylon to pylon (I preferred to test my sense of orientation), or you can test your knowledge and win a prize of your own. But it's unlikely to come with the financial rewards of a Nobel Prize! In 2016 each "full Nobel Prize" was allocated 8 million SEK (Swedish Kronor), which is just shy of one million euros. Money is worth mentioning here, because while the Nobel Laureate meetings may not bring much cash to Lindau, they do bring a sense of self-importance and respectability to a small town that may otherwise have fallen off the map.The meetings draw in a vast number of sponsors and partners from across industry - the most visible of which provide a fleet of sleek cars made by Porsche or Audi. But when the meetings are over, I imagine the cars go too. The pylons, on the other hand, are here to stay, for an initial 10 years. They anchor the meetings to this town.But officially the science trail is all about "outreach" - the science community "reaching out" to the general public.Outreach is an odd term, but its intentions are sane. The science community has been waking up to the fact that it is the community's own responsibility to help non-scientists understand what scientists do.It has become especially pertinent now, say the scientists. They see themselves as being under increasing attack from politicians, climate deniers, or whoever else has an interest in discrediting scientific findings.Scientists really need to come out of hiding - and fight their corner. As, indeed, we all do. They need to fight their corner in languages that let us normal folk understand. The young scientists at Lindau know it's a tough call. Some admit they struggle to explain their work in ways that non-scientists can grasp. But it's vital that they try.The more people who understand science, and the more people who aren't scared by the complexities of science, the better the chances of science getting funded and delivering potential solutions to life's many questions. We also need to learn to appreciate the history of science to understand how it has evolved, the context in which it operates. Each pylon features a "Did you know?" element. So you might, for instance, read how chemist George de Hevesy used science to hide two golden Nobel Prize medals from the Nazis. And that right next to a few easily digested facts about the chemical element carbon - the one thing we are all made of, regardless of race, faith, profession, political persuasion, or physical form. See? It might not always be right. But science is life. Born in 1815, Ada Lovelace was the daughter of the famous poet Lord Byron. A gifted mathematician, she is said to have written instructions for the first computer program in the mid-1800s. She is considered the first person to realize that computers, still not a reality, had potential beyond mere calculation. Lovelace is known chiefly for her work on Charles Babbage's proposed "Analytical Engine."Marie Curie was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize. Not only that, she was the first person to win one twice. Born in Warsaw in 1867, she became a naturalized French citizen. Curie shared the 1903 Nobel Prize in Physics - for research on radiation phenomena - with husband Pierre and physicist Henri Becquerel. She won the 1911 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for discovering radium and polonium.Rosalind Franklin never received a Nobel Prize, although many believe she should have. Biophysicist Franklin was an X-ray crystallographer whose practical work was heavily relied upon by James Watson and Francis Crick in their discovery of the DNA double helix, which won the Nobel prize for medicine. By the time the prize was awarded, Franklin had died of ovarian cancer.British biochemist Dorothy Hodgkin was a contemporary of Franklin, and the two shared their expertise with one another. Hodgkin developed crystallography techniques to give an insight into the structures of biomolecules and won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1964, becoming the third woman to do so. Five years after winning, Hodgkin was the first person to decipher the structure of insulin.Australian-American Elizabeth Blackburn won the Nobel Prize for Physiology/Medicine in 2009 for her work on telomeres - the protective tips that lie at the end of our chromosomes. Blackburn co-discovered the enzyme telomerase, which allows telomeres to be replenished. Telomerase allows cells to go on dividing, so it appears to influence aging and could have implications in cancer research.British primatologist Jane Goodall is considered the world's leading expert on chimpanzees and has spent decades studying the social and family interactions of wild chimpanzees in Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania. She came up with names for many of the animals, drawing criticism from some who accused her of anthropomorphizing.Born in Italy in 1909, Rita Levi-Montalcini had her career cut short by Benito Mussolini's laws banning Jews from academia. Undeterred, she he set up a lab in her bedroom and studied the growth of nerve fibers in chicken embryos. After the war, she worked in St. Louis, where she isolated Nerve Growth Factor from cancer tissues. She shared a 1986 Nobel Prize for that with colleague Stanley Cohen.In 1967, Northern Irish physicist Jocelyn Bell Burnell discovered a signal that pulsed at a regular rate. The signal, detected by rediotelescope, was dubbed the "little green man." It turned out not to be alien communication, but a rapidly spinning neutron star - the first "pulsar" to be detected. In 1974, her supervisor jointly won a Nobel Prize for pulsar work. Bell Burnell was not a recipient. Author: Richard Connor Early on this year, chancellor Angela Merkel pressed the button to start up the Wendelstein 7-X device. A small amount of hydrogen was injected into the device that was then heated up by microwave into a plasma of between 10 and 100 million degrees Celsius. The creation and manipulation of plasmas would be a step on the road to harnessing nuclear fusion as a safe and clean source of energy.There was no nuclear fusion this time around. The goal was instead to put test out the institute's "stellerator." Such devices are used to hold superheated plasmas, and manipulate them using magnetic fields. In December, scientists reported that they had been successful in doing so to a high level of precision.Also up-and-running earlier this year was a high performance computer center at the Helmholtz Centre for Heavy Ion Research in Darmstadt. It's job will be to churn over all the data produced that the new particle accelerator FAIR will produce in years to come. There was a sensational success for the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory in February, when its scientists recorded a chirping sound - the sound of gravitational waves. Such ripples in the fabric of space-time were predicted by Albert Einstein a century ago. It was only the second time they had ever been heard. On July 26th, the solar airplane Solar Impulse II ended its journey of more than a year, reaching Abu Dhabi. The plane took off from there in March the previous year, flying around the globe in an eastern direction. The flight wasn't without problems, solar-charged batteries had to be completely replaced during the plane's crossing of the Pacific. A fatal accident involving a Tesla car in Florida in May overshadowed the rapid advance of autonomous and semiautonomous vehicles. The deceased "driver" had apparently put his car into autopilot mode and was watching a Harry Potter movie. The car's systems had failed to spot a large white 18-wheel truck crossing the highway. The Olympic games in Brazil appeared to be under threat with the spread of the Zika virus, which is linked with microcephaly, a syndrome that leads to an underdeveloped cranium in newborns. The virus is transmitted by mosquito and expanded across the tropics with unexpected speed. The World Health Organization called a global emergency and, by November, things appeared to be calming down.T bingen researchers announced in July that they had isolated an active substance called lugdunin from bacteria that normally settle in the nose. The chemical appears to stop disease-causing bacteria from growing there. It's though that lugdunin might even be of use against the hospital superbug MRSA.Australian researchers looked closely at the milk produced by Tasmanian devil mothers and discovered highly effective proteins that also act against multi-resistant bacteria. Marsupials need such defenses because their babies grow in pouches that are often full of bacteria. Might it also be of use to humans?It was in March, when researchers discovered this small octopus off the coast of Hawaii. They christened him Casper - after the ghost cartoon character. By December, marine biologists had found out more. The octopod lays its eggs on mineral nodules on the deep sea floor. Too bad, then, that manganese and other substances present in the nodules are becoming increasingly important for industry.Cows burp out methane gas, and it's become common knowledge that this is one of the most substantial contributors to global warming. One molecule - 3-nitrooxypropanol - can help curb that, according to scientists at the Max Planck Institute for Terrestrial Microbiology. The substance prevents a buildup of methane in cows' stomachs and also improves the uptake of nutrients. This falcon, who goes by the name Socrates, was allowed to prove his skills in a wind tunnel at the University of the German Federal Armed Forces in Munich. High-speed cameras filmed his movements, and researchers scrutinized the images. It's probably a long way off, but might our aircraft one day fly with feathered wings?The 2016 Nobel Prize in Medicine was awarded for the discovery of an important self-healing mechanism in our cells. Without autophagy - "self-eating" - cells could not renew themselves. Yoshinori Ohsumi, from Japan, discovered the mechanism.Three theoretical physicists share this year's Nobel Prize. They investigated strange phenomena that occur in the atomic world and which may make quantum computing possible one day. The concepts involved are quite abstract, and are concerned with how many holes objects have. Or something like that. We're not entirely sure.Even if you're a fan of small cars, this may be going too far. The scientists Jean-Pierre Sauvage, Fraser Stoddart and Bernard Feringa have made possible nanocars that operate on a molecular level. They can use light as fuel. The three received the Nobel Prize for Chemistry for their efforts.