Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull's foray into standup comedy was made public by Channel Nine television on Thursday.The tongue-in-cheek routine was part of an off-the-record speech Turnbull delivered at an annual media ball at Parliament House in Canberra on Wednesday night.In the recording, Turnbull is seen mimicking Trump's trademark hand gestures and speaking style."The Donald and I, we are winning and winning in the polls," he said to laughter from the audience. "We are winning so much. We are winning like we have never won before.""We are winning... not in the fake polls. We are winning in the real polls, like the online polls. They are so easy to win. I know that. I have this Russian guy. Believe me, it's true," he added, alluding to the scandal over the Trump administration's purported ties to Russia.Turnbull and Trump got off to a rocky start, with Trump describing their first telephone call in January over a refugee deal as "testy." Trump cut the conversation short and later tweeted that the refugee agreement, secured by his predecessor Barack Obama, was "dumb." When Turnbull traveled to New York to visit the US leader last month, they declared before the media that they "get along great" - although Trump was several hours late to their meeting and then cut it short."It was beautiful. It was the most beautiful putting-me-at-ease ever," Turnbull says in the recording, which appears to be filmed using a smartphone.Turnbull: 'Breach of protocol'Wednesday night's ball, organized by the Federal Parliamentary Press Gallery, is strictly a closed event, meaning journalists do not typically report on what is said. Both Turnbull and the press gallery hosts expressed disappointment that guests had not complied with the non-publication request for the speeches."It's a breach of protocol, it's a breach of faith and all those things," Turnbull told Melbourne Radio 3AW. "But you know, it's light hearted, it's affectionate, good natured and the butt of my jokes was myself."Laurie Oakes, the veteran journalist who reported the speech, said he didn't attend the ball, and didn't accept that reporting should be banned at a function hosted by journalists."The idea that there be no leak with hundreds of people in the room armed with mobile phones is just ridiculous," he said.In a statement cited by Channel Nine, the US Embassy in Canberra said they could appreciate the speech's comedic value."We understand that last night's event is equivalent to our own White House Correspondents' Dinner," it read. "We take this with the good humor that was intended."nm/msh (Reuters, AFP, AP, dpa)June 18, 2013. Donald Trump tweeted: "The Miss Universe Pageant will be broadcast live from MOSCOW, RUSSIA on November 9. A big deal that will bring our countries together!" He later added: "Do you think Putin will be going - if so, will he become my new best friend?" October 17, 2013 Trump tells chat show host David Letterman he has conducted "a lot of business with the Russians."An FBI agent told a tech-support contractor at the Democratic National Committee it may have been hacked. On May 18, 2016, James Clapper, the director of National Intelligence, said there were "some indications" of cyberattacks aimed at the presidential campaigns. On June 14, 2016 the DNC announced it had been the victim of an attack by Russian hackers.Senator Jeff Sessions - an early Trump endorser who led his national security advisory committee - met Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and a group of other ambassadors at a Republican National Convention event.Julian Assange's WikiLeaks published 20,000 emails stolen from the DNC, appearing to show a preference for Hillary Clinton over Senator Bernie Sanders.The FBI announced it was investigating the DNC hack saying "a compromise of this nature is something we take very seriously." Donald Trump is elected President of the United States. On November 9, the Russian parliament burst into applause at the news.Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Rybakov said there "were contacts" between the Russian government and the Trump campaign during the election campaign. The Trump campaign issued a firm denial. Trump named General Michael Flynn as his national security adviser. The former Defence Intelligence Agency chief was a top foreign policy adviser in Trump's campaign. Flynn resigned in February after failing to disclose full details of his communication with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak.Acting attorney general Sally Yates told White House counsel Don McGahn that Flynn made false statements regarding his calls with Kislyak. On January 30 Trump fired Yates for refusing to enforce his travel ban, which was later blocked by federal courts.Trump said he had "total confidence" in Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Sessions announced he would recuse himself from any investigation into ties between Russia and the Trump campaign.FBI Director James Comey confirmed before the House Select Committee on Intelligence that the FBI was investigating possible links between Russia and the Trump campaign.In a letter announcing the termination, Trump wrote: "While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the Bureau."Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller to look into Russia s interference in the 2016 election and possible collusion with the Trump campaign. Author: Jo Harper 