Anita Pallenberg, who long struggled with drugs and alcohol, died Wednesday in the city of Chichester, in southeast England, of unspecified causes.Pallenberg's relationship with The Rolling Stones began in September 1965, when she went backstage after a gig in Munich and met the guitarist Brian Jones.Pallenberg - born in Rome to ethnically German parents - moved to London and became Jones' lover, but on a trip to Morocco with Jones and Keith Richards in 1967 she returned to London with Richards."Then he turned into a kind of schizo. He got aggressive and abusive," Pallenberg said of Jones in an interview with the now defunct magazine Cheap Date.Richards became a regular user of cocaine and heroin and Pallenberg also fell into addiction, which intensified while they were at Nellcote, a villa in the south of France, where the Stones recorded "Exile on Main St." in 1971.Richards and Pallenberg went on to have three children: a son, Marlon, born in 1969, daughter, Dandelion Angela, three years later and another son, Tara, in 1976, who died of pneumonia at 10 weeks old.Posting on Twitter on Wednesday, Richards called her "a most remarkable woman."Actress and modelBorn in German-occupied Rome toward the end of World War II, Pallenberg was the daughter of Arnold "Arnaldo" Pallenberg, an Italian travel agent and amateur artist, singer and piano player, and his wife, Paula, a secretary at the German Embassy.After being expelled from school at 16, Pallenberg found work as a model and met Italian film director Federico Fellini, novelist Alberto Moravia and directors Luchino Visconti and Pier Paolo Pasolini.Pallenberg also lived in New York and was a part of the Andy Warhol and Factory studio scene.She went on to appear in "Barbarella," the 1968 science-fiction film about a future world government starring Jane Fonda.In 1970, Pallenberg and Stones frontman Mick Jagger starred in Nicolas Roeg and Donald Cammell's film "Performance."'Profound' influenceThe Stones' personal assistant Jo Bergman told The Observer newspaper in 2008: "She, Mick, Keith and Brian were the Rolling Stones. Her influence has been profound. She keeps things crazy."Singer Marianne Faithfull, who was involved in the late 1960s with Jagger, described Pallenberg as a lifelong friend in a tribute on Facebook."She taught me so much, especially after we got clean; it was very good, and so much fun! Farewell my love, go well."For ever a rock 'n' roller? The Rolling Stones are among the world's oldest rock bands. On average, they're now 72 years old. You may be able to read their age on their faces, but their energy doesn't seem to have diminished. They have survived half a century of sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll. With their new album, they've now returned to their origins: blues.Mick Jagger and Keith Richards met each other at school. In 1962, they founded The Rolling Stones. Also performing at their first concert in London were Tony Chapman (drums), Dick Taylor (bass) and Ian Stewart (piano). Another line-up followed with Brian Jones (second guitar), Bill Wyman (bass) and Charlie Watts (drums), who performed on the first album, "The Rolling Stones," in 1964. With their feel-good songs, The Beatles were already achieving world fame in 1964. That's why Andrew Loog Oldham, then manager of the Stones, wanted to create a counterpole to the Fab Four. They were to become famous as the "bad boys" - although, during their first TV performance in the show "Ready Steady Go," they came across as harmless good guys.One year later, on September 11, The Rolling Stones gave their first concert in West Germany - in the rather conservative city of M nster. The police had a hard time keeping their fans under control. Most residents in M nster, however, eyed the Stones with suspicion. They were actually lucky, though. Fans in Berlin demolished a stage during a later concert. During the 1960s, no other rock band came to symbolize this image more than the Stones. The combination of rock music, free love and drug consumption seemed to be an omnipresent phenomenon. Stones guitarist Brian Jones became ill from his drug use, which is why he left the band in June 1969. A short time later, he drowned in his swimming pool under mysterious circumstances. In May 1965, the Stones went on their third tour across the US, once again playing cover versions of US hits. They still hadn't produced enough songs of their own. One night, Keith played a new melody on his guitar, and he loved it so much that he recorded it and had Mick listen to it. It was the hookline of their first worldwide hit, "Satisfaction." Keith was the one who wrote the tunes and harmonies, while Mick added texts and vocals. Working together in this way they created the foundation of many songs - among them quite a few global hits like "Sticky Fingers," "Exile on Mainstreet" and "Beggar's Banquet."The Altamont Free Concert, initiated by the Stones management, was intended as a peaceful counter event to Woodstock. With the Stones on stage were, among others, Santana, Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young, and Jefferson Airplane. When the Stones appeared, there was a great deal of upheaval among the audience and the concert needed to be interrupted. Controlling the situation were the Hells Angels.When the Stones were playing "Under my Thumb," a man collapsed in front of the stage after a member of the Hells Angels stabbed him in the back. The band was shocked. Later, they finished the Altamont Free Concert. "If Woodstock was the dream," said British photographer Eamon McCabe later, "then Altamont was the nightmare." This day, December 6,1969, saw the end of the hippie era.Altamont made dent, but only for a short time. The Stones continued with their straight rock 'n' roll, a style that made them world famous. And the Stones wouldn't have been the Stones if they had stopped giving concerts or going on tours. For 50 years, they've successfuly been applying that approach. In 2003, pictured, they performed in Moscow. In 2006, Japanese fans enjoyed a Stones concert in the city of Saitama, north of Tokyo (pictured). Some time later, the Stones performed in the Serbian capital of Belgrade. These fans were also likely to know where the band's name came from. Apparently, Brian Jones was inspired by the blues hit "Mannish Boy" by Muddy Waters, which contained the line, "I'm a rolling stone." Even at an older age - Mick and Keith are now over 70 - The Rolling Stones continue to tour around the world. In May 2014, for example, they performed during the Rio Lisboa Music Festival in Lisbon. And, as usual, they gave their very best, much to the joy of their Portuguese fans. In February 2016, the Rolling Stones started their Am rica-Latina-Ol -Tour in Santiago de Chile, giving their final concert at the end of March in Cuba. It was a free event in a sports park in Havana, where the boys did their best to demonstrate how fit they were. In the picture, the band has just landed at the airport of Havana. The concert DVD "Havana Moon" was released in November. For 11 years, the Stones did nothing but go on tour. Now, they have produced a new album, "Blue & Lonesome." It doesn't contain any fresh content, but only very old songs - 12 rhythm and blues classics. Will the Stones have made it full circle with that album? It wouldn't be a surprise if something else were yet to follow. Author: Silke W nsch (ad) jbh/cmk (AP, AFP)