A court in Nuremberg on Thursday rejected a regional authority application that a 20-year-old Afghan be kept in custody until June 30, pending deportation back to war-torn Afghanistan.Instead, he walked free to be greeted outside the court by 25 fellow students and his teacher at the vocational school he had been attending, with the prospect of being offered a formal apprenticeship.His classmates battled with police at the school when authorities picked him up for deportation, drawing renewed criticism over the government's controversial policy of deporting people back to the war-torn country. German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Thursday evening said deportations would be postponed until July.Read: Merkel announces halt to Afghan deportations after Kabul bombingTumultuous scenesNine police officers were injured in the clashes and five people were taken into temporary custody in the ensuing scuffle, which saw police use pepper spray and dogs against some protesters hurling bottles and blocking patrol cars.Pictures of the clashes spread quickly on social media. The spontaneous demonstration quickly spread on social media and moved to the immigration office in the center of the city. Later demonstrations were not violent and moved to the city's Foreigners Office.He has reportedly been in Germany for four years. According to students and teachers, he was well-integrated and had good prospects for an apprenticeship.The protest prevented police from leaving the school for several hours. The events in Nuremberg came the same day that a massive truck bomb targeted the heavily guarded diplomatic zone in the Afghan capital, damaging the German Embassy and killing nearly 90 people and wounding hundreds. A flight scheduled for Wednesday was postponed due to the bombing in Kabul.Migration and integration are major political issues ahead of federal elections in September.Read: How Germany's deportation system worksThe forced deportation attempt in Nuremberg drew renewed criticism from opposition politicians, churches and civil society."The federal government must urgently rethink its decision to deport people to Afghanistan," said Nuremberg Mayor Ulrich Maly, whose Social Democrats are the junior coalition partner with Chancellor Merkel's Christian Democrats at federal level. "Pulling a student out of the classroom is unacceptable."Read: Afghanistan: Sent back to a war zoneA massive truck bomb killed at least 90 people in the Afghan capital Kabul on May 31, 2017. The target of the attack was Kabul's heavily fortified diplomatic area in the "Green Zone." The German embassy in the area was extensively damaged. No group claimed responsibility for the attack but the Taliban and the self-styled "Islamic State" (IS) have staged large attacks in the city in the past.The blast in Kabul's diplomatic enclave was the latest in a long line of attacks on the Afghan capital. Earlier in May, eight foreign soldiers were killed in a bomb attack claimed by IS. In March, insurgents attacked an Afghan military hospital in Kabul's diplomatic district, killing 38 people and injuring more than 70 others, namely patients, doctors and nurses.In April, Afghanistan's Taliban vowed to ramp up assaults on coalition and Afghan security forces, announcing the start of their annual spring offensive. The group said they were changing tactics for this year's operation, naming it "Operation Mansour" after the group's late leader who was killed in 2016 in a US drone strike.US President Donald Trump has yet to announce his Afghanistan policy. Afghanistan expert Michael Kugleman told DW Trump's Afghanistan policy will in many ways be quite similar to that of the Obama administration. "Like Obama, Trump will likely also express support for the idea of reconciliation between the Taliban and the Afghan government," said Kugelman.But the Taliban have shown no interest in peace talks. Afghanistan observers say it is unlikely that the militant group will engage in any negotiations as they currently have the upper hand on the battleground. The Islamists now control more Afghan districts than at any other time since 2001.President Ghani said last year his country "no longer expects Pakistan to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table." Experts say Islamabad uses Taliban militants as proxy jihadists to counter Indian influence in Afghanistan. Former Pakistani Taliban spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan (pictured), was recently captured and pardoned by Islamabad after he accused India of supporting the Taliban. Apart from the Taliban, the Afghan warlords excercise massive influence in the country. Earlier in May, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul.Russia has increased its involvement in Afghanistan. Moscow had maintained an apparent distance from the Afghan conflict for many years but a new geopolitical situation is emerging in the region, and it seems that Russia has decided not to remain "neutral" in the protracted conflict. In the past few months, Russia has hosted a number of Afghanistan conferences involving China, Pakistan and Iran.In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams J rg Alt from the Jesuit Order pointed his criticism directly at the Christian Social Union (CSU), the Bavarian sister party of Merkel's CDU. He said the CSU's deportation stance has "nothing to do with being 'Christian' or 'social.'"But the CSU, which has pushed for tighter immigration policies, defended its position.Bavaria's state interior minister, Joachim Herrmann, said Wednesday the terror attack in Afghanistan was "horrible but must not lead to an end of deportations."Read: Types of protection in Germany for asylum seekersResponding to the tumult in Bavaria, CSU head Horst Seehofer, spoke of "difficult decisions" for every deportation."We must, on the one hand, see if integration works, and, on the other hand, we must be careful not to create massive new refugee flows," he said.A small group of Afghan teenagers, fearful of being followed by police, set off on the roughly 12-kilometer (seven mile) hike along roads and the dangerous mountain tracks of the Death Pass to France.Migrants and refugees cross the border between the town of Ventimiglia in Italy and Menton in France by walking through the highway tunnels or along railroad tracks or by climbing over the rocky mountain. Whichever way they choose, the journey is sometimes fatal.Many migrants and refugees access the highway that leads to France at this fence. From here they risk their lives walking through the tunnel.Those who opt for the Death Pass generally set off without knowing the route or carrying supplies of food or water.Old farmers' storehouses are used by refugees and migrants as shelter, to rest or to wait for nightfall before they cross the mountain. Worn clothes are left behind when they change into fresh clothes, hoping that a tidy appearance will help them avoid getting caught by the French police.A "pace" flag hanging from the border fence between Italy and France indicates where people can squeeze through. The French government erected the fence after World War II to stop Italian immigration.The teenagers survey the route down to Menton. The highest point of the Death Pass is nearly 300 meters (985 feet). Often the migrants and refugees are caught once they make it to France and sent back to Italy. Author: Federico Scoppa (Ventimiglia) cw, ipj/rt (KNA, dpa, AFP, Bayerischer Rundfunk)