That gesture of his. Unwitting opponents could interpret it as an insult. Or as a sign the guy had forgotten something. When he leaves the court victorious, Stan Wawrinka is in the habit of clenching his fist and tapping his forehead with an outstretched index finger.The 2015 French Open winner is unequivocal about the true meaning: "I was the strongest. Up here, in the mind." The signal is meant for one onlooker in particular. Swedish coach Magnus Norman has taught his protege to believe in his own ability. Norman has also helped Wawrinka to victory at the US and Australian Open.Read: French Open - where the coaches are the real stars of the showHis talent has never been in any doubt. But he never really felt he could be the best. In a recent interview with German daily S ddeutsche Zeitung, he admitted he doesn't see himself as one of the game's greats.Magnus Norman (pictured right) has helped Wawrinka to major successUnblemished recordBut now, Wawrinka has reached the semifinals of the French Open 2017 without conceding a single set. Shortly beforehand, he eased to victory in Geneva as if it were a practice tournament. Wawrinka dominates his opponents almost at will thanks to his powerful serve and baseline shots."It was a really good level," he said in typically modest fashion after knocking out Fabio Fognini. "I've started playing better and better. It has been a perfect week so far."Read: What now for Novak Djokovic after shock quarterfinal loss?Players that shun the limelight and concentrate on ironing out their own shortcomings tend to make for the toughest opponents. On the other hand, the man who proudly wears his fan moniker "Stan the Man" on his training gear, is a veritable powerhouse. His one-handed backhand makes a mockery of all the predictions that this most difficult of shots was a dying art.Wawrinka has raised the bar. Racquet head pointing upwards on the backswing, shoulders forward. No one squares up to the ball better. No one hits it sweeter. Not even that other Swiss player.Wawrinka and Federer have ennjoyed a great friendship and rivalry on and off the court"Cry baby" und "asshole"Stan Wawrinka and Roger Federer. The original odd couple are friends ostensibly, having won the Davis Cup together. And yet Federer's decade-long dominance left his compatriot well and truly in the shadows. And then there was the incident with Federer's wife Mirka. At the final of the 2014 ATP World Tour Finals, Wawrinka complained about several interruptions by Mirka. "Cry baby" she shot back. You could have cut the alpine air with a knife for weeks after. It wasn't until March that Wawrinka let slip that the relationship was back on track. After losing the final in Indian Wells, an exhausted and dejected Wawrinka looked over to Federer during the award ceremony. When Federer started smirking, Wawrinka blurted out: "Roger is laughing. He's an asshole, but it's okay." Only a true friend could get away with that.Having grown up on a farmyard with an adjoining home for the disabled, Wawrinka is now at home on the most famous courts in the world. Success at Roland Garros in 2017 is within his grasp. Legends of the game such as Boris Becker and Mats Wilander believe he can do it. First, there is the small matter of world number one Andy Murray in the semifinals. Then in all likelihood Rafael Nadal. The fact that all the talk is centered on the Spaniard, will suit Wawrinka down to the ground.The French Open was first held in 1891, when it was only open to members of French tennis clubs. At first the tournament was played on a number of different surfaces and at different locations, including at the Bois de Bologne in the west end of Paris. The current facility, named after French aviator Roland Garros, was constructed in 1928.In 1925, the tournament was opened up to players who didn't belong to French clubs, but it wasn't until 1933 that a foreigner won the title. Australian Jack Crawford beat five-time champion Henri Clochet. Crawford, though, wasn't the first foreigner to win the title, as H. Briggs (his first name is not known), a Briton, who resided in Paris, won the first tournament in 1891.German players had much success at Roland Garros in the 1930s. Baron Gottfried von Cramm (pictured above) won on the men's side in 1934 and 1936, while Henner Henkel won in 1937. Cilly Aussem won the women's tournament in 1931 while Hilde Sperling took the trophy three years running, from 1935 through 1937.Sweden's Bjorn Borg (above left) was the dominant player of his era and he won the French Open all but two years between 1974 and 1981. He was just 18 when he won his first title at Roland Garros and was still just 25 when he won his last French Open, beating Ivan Lendl (right) in the final. He retired from tennis at the tender age of 26. In 1989, Ivan Lendl was in the final again, this time against 17-year-old American Michael Chang. The two battled it out over five sets, and Chang in particular suffered from cramps and fatigue. Eventually, the American was so tired that he began serving underhand. However, he still overcame the 29-year-old from Czechoslovakia to become the youngest Grand Slam winner ever. Bjorn Borg's record of six men's French Open titles stood until the following millenium. Rafael Nadal pulled level with his win in 2011, before passing Borg with his seventh in 2012 (pictured above). The Spanish player now has a total of nine singles titles to his name, having also won the 2013 and 2014 tournaments. For several years beginning in the late 1980s, Germany's serve-and-volley specialist, Boris Becker, won just about every grass-court tournament going. However, he had no luck at Roland Garros, only reaching the semifinals on three occasions, 1987, 1989, and 1991. In fact, during his 15 years as a professional, Becker never won a single tournament on clay.French tennis fans have been waiting for one of their own to win the title at Roland Garros for more than three decades. The last Frenchman to do so was Yannick Noah, who beat the previous champion, Mats Wilander of Sweden, in the 1983 final. The last Frenchman to make it to the final was Henri Leconte in 1988. The roaring 20s were a much better era for French fans, who watched Suzanne Leglen dominate on the women's side, winning the singles on six of seven tries between 1920 and 1926. Leglen, whose graceful style made her one of the world's biggest tennis stars, won a total of 25 Grand Slam titles. In the summer of 1938 she was diagnosed with leukemia and died a few weeks later at the age of 39.Chris Evert-Lloyd (above, right), won seven titles between 1974 and 1986, often meeting her biggest rival, Martina Navratilova (left) in the final. Evert-Lloyd beat Navratilova for the first time when she won the 1975 title. Between 1984 and 1986 they met in the final three consecutive times, with Evert-Lloyd winning twice. This was followed by the period of dominance by Steffi Graf. The German made it to the final at Roland Garros nine times between 1987 and 1999 - winning the title six times. Her biggest final was in 1988, when she beat Natasha Zvereva of the Soviet Union 6-0, 6-0 in just 32 minutes. Her last French Open title came against the then-women's world No. 1, Martina Hingis of Switzerland, in 1999.Center court, named after former tennis player Philippe Chartrier, has a capacity of 15,000, while next door, the Suzanne Lenglen court can hold up to 10,000. None of the stadiums at Roland Garros has a roof, meaning it can get really hot when the weather is good, or really unpleasant if it rains.This also means that hardly a French Open goes by without rain delaying proceedings at some point or other. When this happens, the spectators can only put up their umbrellas, while the surface is covered with a tarp. There are plans for the main courts to get roofs - but not until 2020. Author: Andreas Sten-Ziemons