Like les escargots in France, snail farming in Italy used to be all about gastronomy. But over the past two years, Italian pharmacies and perfumeries have witnessed a growing interest in slime-based products. From anti-wrinkle face creams to children's cough syrups and antacids, this natural ingredient is gaining popularity."For over 20 years they've been making products with snail slime," says Simone Sampo, the president of the International Snail Breeding Institute in Cherasco, northwestern Italy. "But in the last six months there's been an increase of more than 40 percent in consumption."A snail breeder for the past 21 years, Sampo is thrilled with the slime boom. "More and more people are discovering this product for the incredible benefits it has for the skin, the respiratory system and the stomach," he says.Snail farms, like this one in Cherasco, have started harvesting snail slime to meet the growing demandSlimy revelationThe benefits of snail slime may have been common knowledge in ancient times, but its rediscovery dates back to the 1980s. Chilean farmers handling snails bound for the French market observed how soft and well moisturized the skin on their hands had become, and noticed that cuts and scars healed quickly.Research confirmed that snail slime was naturally rich in vitamins, proteins and substances such as glycolic acid, allantoin, collagen and elastin - all of which are popular ingredients in cosmetics.The ensuing increase in demand for slime has inevitably led to a boom for snail farmers. Over the last 20 years, snail breeding has taken off and the number of farms has trebled.Snails release slime when they move around, and when they experience pleasure or fearBreeding boomThe Snail Breeding Institute has been running training programs and carrying out research into the helix snail species for the past 40 years. From nature to gastronomy, science to economics, the institute covers every aspect of snail husbandry.There are eight snail farms around Cherasco alone and some 4,000 farms in the breeders' network throughout Italy. They all adhere to the institute's philosophy of natural, outdoor breeding: no greenhouses and no animal feed, only fresh plants.A field on Monica Fissore's farm, 50km south of Turin "The snails love sunflowers," says local breeder Monica Fissore, who set up her farm, Il giardino della lumaca (The Snail Garden) four years ago. She has over a million snails and feeds them a diet of flowers and vegetables, growing all the extra food herself around the farm's perimeter.Until recently, Fissore's snails were destined for consumption, but she is now starting to sell them for slime extraction.The Snail Breeding Institute regularly holds free introductory seminars for prospective snail farmers and the 80 available places are invariably filled. Participants come from all over Europe as well as from Australia, South Africa, Latin America and the Middle East.Extracting the slimeSimone Sampo has spent almost a decade researching the best way to extract slime without harming the snails."In the past they threw salt or vinegar on them, stimulating the snails to produce slime but also killing them immediately afterwards," Sampo explains, adding that the extraction process not only killed the snails "but also led to a much lower concentration of mucopolysaccharides in the slime than the snail normally produces when it feels fine."Staff at the institute have developed a cruelty-free method to extract slime from the gastropodsMucopolysaccharides, like hyaluronic acid, are naturally present in connective tissue and important for hydration and lubrication. Happy snails, Sampo concluded, would produce better quality, richer slime. "My idea was to prevent the snail from suffering and to make a machine that would avoid contamination and allow extraction from the same snails more than once."The machine his team eventually came up with is called the MullerOne, named after the Helix Aspersa M ller snail variety. The metal structure has two plexiglass domes under which 1,500 snails can be placed. Twenty kilos of snails produce approximately three litres of slime in the one-hour extraction process.Snails are treated to an ozone shower inside the MullerOne'A spa for snails'During the first half hour, the snails are sprayed with ozone to relax and cleanse them of bacteria and mould. During the second half hour they are sprayed with another natural spray which stimulates them to produce slime.According to Sampo, snails produce slime for three reasons: locomotion, fear and pleasure. He maintains that the ozone-infused water gives them a sense of well-being and the stimulating lotion a sensation of pleasure. "We consider this machine as a spa for snails," beams Sampo, who says the same snails can safely be used for more than one extraction in a day.The slime passes through a drip tray, down a funnel and into a sterile container, ready to be sold. "With our machine we extract uncontaminated, standardized, cruelty-free slime," says Sampo with pride. He is so confident about the slime extracted using the MullerOne that the institute has now launched its own line of slime-based cosmetics as well as a cough syrup and liquid antacid.Sampo says the institute's MullerOne machine stimulates snails to produce slime without harming themOvercoming disgustThe institute's communications manager, Sara Borio, admits that consumers often have a problem with the idea of ingesting snail slime or rubbing it into their skin, but she believes the desire to use natural rather than chemical products is helping people get over the "ew" factor."The consumer is more aware of what he eats, what he puts on the face, on the body, so there is a growing market in these natural products and there's also space for snail slime," she says.Their range of creams and lotions contain a minimum of 70-90 percent snail slime, effectively replacing the usual water content. But she warns consumers to beware of misleading marketing:"In Italy there are several products that declare they have snail slime but the percentage is really low," Borio says, advising consumers to avoid products which list "extract of snail slime" and to opt for those explicitly containing "snail slime."Or maybe not ... slug eyes come in the form of eyespots at the end of retractable optical tentacles. Though they can't define color or shape, they are light-sensitive, can grow back if damaged, and have the multi-tasking ability to detect smell. Useful, given that only 5 percent of the vast slug population is above ground at any one time.Slugs are hermaphrodites who mate by encircling each other and exchanging sperm. In some species, such as the bright yellow banana slug, the penis - which can be as long as six inches - can become trapped inside the body of the partner. This unfortunate dilemma is resolved through apophallation, a practice in which either the partner or the owner of the lodged member chews it clean off.Days after mating, a slug will lay somewhere between 20 and 100 eggs in the earth, where they can remain dormant for many years waiting for the ideal conditions to hatch. Because they lay eggs several times each year, it has been estimated that a single slug can grandparent as many as 90,000 offspring. But since they don't live in groups, they may never know their ma or pa.Originally creatures of the sea, slugs require moisture. And lots of it. Their ideal habitat is the damp darkness of hedgerows, compost heaps or rotting wood. If during warm weather nothing suitable is to be found, these innovative little survivors are able to house themselves in a papery structure that resemble a cocoon, affixing it to a wall or a tree until the heat passes.For all their evolutionary refinement, slugs are loathed by gardeners and farmers, who avidly share tips on whether salt, beer or toxic pellets are the best way to get kill them. Though they regularly fall victim to all methods on the market, slugs continue to slide through the world in abundance. It is estimated that a cubic meter of moist garden will accommodate as many as 200 of the creatures.Slugs are not fussy about what they eat, and will content themselves with pretty much anything digestible they come across on their slippery travels. That includes plants, compost, fungi and in some cases, carrion or disposed cat food. If you were under the impression that slugs are toothless beings, it is time to disappoint. They have as many as 27,000 teeth - even more than sharks.Slugs move by contracting muscles on their underside, and by secreting a mucus than enables them to slide along. They defend themselves against predators such as hedgehogs, snakes, toads and birds by tightening to become round and hard, at the same time firmly attaching themselves to their surface. When the coast is clear, they can also stretch to several times their normal length.Okay, so we humans find slug slime pretty gross - but for the creatures that produce it, it is their lifeline. Not only does it help them get around, it also protects their skin against sharp edges such as razor-sharp pieces of glass. Pretty innovative. Slug slime is also water resistant, which makes it hard to remove. So the slug gets the last laugh. Author: Tamsin Walker