Andy Murray beat Juan Martin Del Potro 7-6 (10-8), 7-5, 6-0 to banish the Scot's memory of his epic five hour, five-set defeat to the Argentinean in the 2016 Davis Cup semifinal.The world number one, who beat Del Potro in the Rio Olympic final, needed nearly three hours to beat the 29th seed, and Murray made an effort to contain his trademark swearing and futile shouting, after admitting he had let his emotions get the better of him in the previous round."Yeah, I expected a very tough match. And the first set was very, very important, I think, for the rest of the match. Whoever had won that first set had big momentum," Murray said. "In these conditions, when it's slow and heavy, to be coming back is difficult."Del Potro, playing Paris for the first time in five years due to wrist surgery recovery interruptions, failed to take any of the four set points he had in the opening set. "Too much frustration," del Potro said. "I couldn't believe I lost that set."Murray is a three-time Grand Slam title winner and was the runner-up at Roland Garros a year ago. While he hasn't had a great season so far, Murray has now reached the fourth round for the eighth time in 10 appearances in Paris.Having twice stopped his opponent from taking the opening set, Stan Wawrinka dispatched Fabio Fognini like a gentle breeze does humidity, winning 7-6, 6-0, 6-2 to advance. Croatia's Marin Cilic also won in three sets while Britain's Kyle Edmund was beaten 6-7 (6-8), 7-6 (7-4), 5-7, 6-1, 6-4 in an epic five sets match and Fernando Verdasco won in straight sets.The clay season of Agnieszka Radwanska ended after only four matches, as the Polish ninth seed fell 6-2, 6-1 to Alize Cornet. Radwanska has been troubled by injury and played only one April clay match in Stuttgart before attempting to compete at Roland Garros. "I didn't feel good. I mean, I did all that I could, it wasn't my day," the Pole said. "I wanted to play a bit faster, but I just had the wrong timing. I'm just happy that the clay is over."Simona Halep showed that an ankle injury is no longer a huge worry as she beat Russian Daria Kasatkina 6-0, 7-5.