For a long time, Qatar has been facing accusations of being too closely associated with the Muslim Brotherhood and radical Islamist groups. The US has voiced criticism of these allegiances as well. (27.05.2017) Millions of Muslims across the world have begun observing Islam's holy month of Ramadan. But what is it about? DW examines the religious observance and what it means for the faithful. (27.05.2017) Don't mention the T-word either. German Chancellor Angela Merkel is struggling to duck her Mexican visit's symbolism, south of Donald Trump's planned border wall. DW's Michaela K fner is accompanying the chancellor. (10.06.2017) The US President has called on Qatar to "do more" to cut off its support for terrorism. Secretary of State Tillerson also said sanctions are impacting the US-led coalition against the so-called "Islamic State." (09.06.2017) The Gulf States are turning away from Qatar over its alleged support of terrorism. But is the move really about the fight against terrorism, or does it have to do with something else that is upsetting Saudi Arabia? (06.06.2017) Germany's foreign minister is pursuing diplomacy to resolve the standoff over Qatar. Sigmar Gabriel said Middle Eastern states should lift the land, sea and air blockade they have imposed on the small Gulf country. (09.06.2017) Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan told Bahrain's foreign minister that an ongoing dispute between Qatar and other Arab Gulf states must be resolved by the end of Ramadan, Islam's holy month of fasting, according to Turkey's foreign minister on Saturday.In a joint press conference with Bahrain's foreign minister, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said Turkey would continue efforts to end a regional dispute that has sought to isolate Qatar.Read more: Discord in the Persian Gulf: Qatar and the Muslim BrotherhoodThe move comes after Saudi Arabia released a list of 59 individuals it accused of sponsoring terrorism, including members of the Qatari royal family."Fighting terrorism and extremism is no longer a choice, rather a commitment requiring decisive and swift action to cut off all funding sources for terrorism regardless of its financier," the official Saudi Press Agency reported, citing a government source.Doha has vehemently denied the allegations.Last week, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, the UAE and Egypt severed diplomatic ties with the Gulf nation, citing terror links. The tensions have been simmering for years, with Gulf states and Egypt resenting Qatar's ties to the moderate Muslim Brotherhood movement along with its sponsorship of the pan-Arab television network Al-Jazeera.Read more: Saudi Arabia vs. Qatar vs. IranGabriel warns of warCommenting on the crisis, Germany's Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel criticized "dramatic" moves between neighboring states and urged dialogue."There is a danger that this dispute turns into a war," Gabriel told Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung.German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel met with Qatari Foreign Minister Mohammed al-Thani on Friday to discuss the crisisGabriel added that he had spoken to colleagues from Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Turkey, Iran, and Kuwait about the issue."After having those conversations this week, I know how serious the situation is. However, I also believe there is a good chance to resolve it," he said.Trump pressures DohaGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel also called for a political solution to the diplomatic dispute on Friday.However, her American counterpart Donald Trump alleged that Qatar has been a "high-level" sponsor of terrorism for years. He called on Qatar to "end that funding."The Pentagon has warned that the Gulf states' air, land and water blockade have impeded the US' ability to plan for long-term operations in the region. Qatar is a member of the US-led coalition against the self-styled Islamic State militant group. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eQz5 dj/jm (Reuters, AFP)