German Chancellor Angela Merkel has promised to introduce tax incentives for the installation of insulation in residential properties, according to a German newspaper report on Sunday.Merkel told a construction industry audience that she would introduce the subsidies for building renovations for the sake of climate protection, according to the report in respected German daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.Merkel said the insulation subsidies would help tackle the "low hanging fruit" in the reduction of CO2 emissions.The reforms were backed by Merkel's Environment and Construction Minister Barbara Hendricks, from Merkel's coalition partner party, the Social Democrats.Hendricks told the paper she did not understand why parts of the coalition were "constantly on the brakes" over the issue.Some 10,500 firefighters were called to tackle forest fires in California in 2015. They were unable to prevent 1,400 homes from destruction. The blaze was fueled by hot and dry weather - as a result of climate change.The polar bear has become a symbol of climate change, as its habitat is threatened by global warming. The Arctic predator hunts from ice sheets that are fast disappearing. As the ice retreats, they are unable to stalk their prey, and risk starvation. By 2050, scientists warn that the Arctic could be ice-free in summer.Just visible from the air is a little wood hut on the island of Spitzbergen in Norway. It is home to the Arctic research base where French and German scientists are studying climatic and atmospheric changes in the polar region, including the damage done to permafrost and glacier systems.A goat watches a mountain expedition on the Swiss Aletsch Glacier, a UNESCO World Heritage site. It was around a kilometer longer in 1860 than it is today. Due to global warming, the glacier is shrinking by up to 50 meters per year. With the rate of retreat increasing, scientists fear Europe's biggest glacier could disappear altogether. the landscape looks peaceful, bathed in a mystical light. But the actual situation is far more unsettling. This aerial view shows Central Luzon in the Philippines, completely flooded after it was hit by a typhoon and heavy rain. People were drowned or buried under landslides, and half a million were forced to flee their homes. The country is hit by 20 typhoons each year. escape is all that's left. The World Bank warns that if global warming continues unimpeded, another 100 million people will be under threat. Poor people in parts of Africa and South Asia are at particular risk. Drought and flooding threaten crops - leading to hunger, disease and high food prices.Climate change often hits children the hardest, through no fault of their own. Studies have found that economic problems exacerbated by drought can have profound social impacts, such as in an increase in child marriages, for example. Families may marry off their underage daughters earlier to have fewer mouths they have to feed.Elephants produce huge quantities of manure. At Munich's Hellabrunn Zoo in Germany, one local utility is turning their waste into electric power. Around 2,000 tons of biowaste provides enough power for a hundred homes. Could this be a model for an African school? In any case, climate change is forcing new ways of thinking in the search for green energy.The Rhine River is Europe's busiest waterway for shipping - but climate change is affecting business. Ongoing drought means shipping firms would be forced to use shorter vessels that can navigate shallower waters. If ships aren't able to set off, more goods have to be transported by road - which is more expensive.Healthy coral reefs are like a blooming garden. But global warming is bleaching the life out of them. Corals have a symbiotic relationship with algae, which are vital to their health. But as the water heats up, they expel the algae. If warmer water temperatures persist, a lack of nutrients calcifies the corals, which makes their color fade and causes the organisms to die.Global warming also has its benefits. In recent years, wine is being produced on Germany's northernmost island, Sylt. Ever more vineyards are being established at higher altitudes and further north - even Scandinavia now has some. Global warming also means earlier harvests and sweeter grapes. Author: Karin J ger / rr, ng The German insulation industry has been calling for the measures for years.Industry figures told the paper the promise was a "strong, forward-looking" signal that would "finally give a long-needed tailwind" to energy-efficient renovations.The reforms would likely come after September's federal election.EU pledges to improve energy efficiencyHouseholds account for about 20 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union, according to official figures.The EU pledged to improve energy efficiency by 27 percent and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent compared to 1990 levels by 2030, with wealthy countries such as Germany, Sweden and France delivering the largest reductions.The EU's 40 percent emissions reduction is split unevenly between economic sectors. Some sectors such as manufacturing, power generation and industry, are being regulated by the EU's Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), and have to reduce emissions by 43 percent by 2030.The remaining sectors not covered by the ETS (transport, agriculture and buildings) have an overall reduction target of 40 percent.A recent survey of residents of Britain, Germany, France and Norway found most people supported policies to mitigate climate change by increasing sources of renewable energy and giving public subsidies for home insulation.Germany a world leader Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ctBBThe American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, a non-profit that lobbies for energy efficiency, rated Germany as the world leader in policies targeting energy efficiency in 2016.Germany is in the midst of a massive reform of its energy sector known as the Energiewende.The program aims to shift the country from nuclear and fossil fuels to renewable sources of energy. The government says this transition will reduce security hazards and ensure Germany creates a greater share of its own power in future.Last year the federal government announced 30 percent rebates on the cost of replacing heating pumps or optimizing heating systems, an initiative the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Energy said could help reduce energy consumption by up to 80 percent.Merkel's promised insulation tax subsidies came at a tricky time for the industry. Scores of people died in a residential tower block in London last week, in a massive fire that was blamed on faulty insulation.In the wake of that fire about 800 households were evacuated across the city due to concerns of about their retrofitted insulating cladding.In further investigations throughout Britain, 27 tower blocks in 15 local authority areas failed fire safety tests, it was reported on Saturday.