Fans will recognize in the tale of Beren and L thien, published on Thursday, elements that would make up J.R.R. Tolkien's "The Simarillion" - also published posthumously in 1977.The new volume depicts myths and legends of Tolkien's First Age of the world and shows how his universe evolved and expanded over the years."Beren and L thien" was edited by Tolkien's third son and literary executor, Christopher Tolkien, now aged 92, who was also responsible for other posthumously published writings such as "The Silmarillion," "Unfinished Tales," and "The History of Middle-earth."The release of the Houghton Mifflin Harcourt publication is timed with the 10th anniversary of the last Middle-earth book, the bestseller "The Children of H rin." The new book includes color illustrations by Alan Lee, who also did the drawings for "The Lord of the Rings" and "The Hobbit," and later won Oscars for his work on Peter Jackson's film trilogy.A personal storyThe English author wrote "Beren and L thien" after he returned from his World War I service, during his convalescence from trench fever. J.R.R. Tolkien's writing was a way to "exorcise" the horrors he had witnessed during the battle of Somme in France, John Garth, author of "Tolkien and The Great War," told the BBC.The tale centers on the fate of two lovers, Beren, a mortal man, and L thien, an immortal elf, and their heroic attempt to raid the greatest of all evil beings, Melkor.Revealing how personal this love story is, the names Beren and L thien are also carved on the gravestone Tolkien shares with his wife. The young Tolkien had fallen in love with his future wife Edith when he was 16, but only married her years later, as the orphan's guardian had prohibited the relationship.A family picture on a postcard with little John Ronald Reuel Tolkien (right), just 11 months old. It was shot in South Africa, his country of birth. After his father died, his mother moved to England, taking him and his younger brother along with her. Eight years later, when Tolkien was only 12 years old, his mother died, and the two brothers were taken care of by a priest. Tolkien grew up in a rural suburb of the British industrial city of Birmingham. The idyllic landscape there served as a model for the homeland of the Hobbits. A proficient student, Tolkien was interested in languages, literature and poetry. It was in Birmingham that he met his later wife Edith, and they married in March 1916. During his studies in Oxford, Tolkien continued to study languages and classical English literature. He spoke Latin and Greek fluently and learned Gothic, Welsh and Finnish. With his enthusiasm for languages, he even invented his own.Newly wed, Tolkien was ordered to the front in July 1916 to fight in the biggest battle of WW I at the Somme. He had to endure endless months in dugouts, witnessing the suffering and death of numerous soldiers. Taking ill with "dugout fever," he had to be taken to a military hospital. Shocked by the horrors of war and impressed by the perseverance of soldiers he began to write there.After the war, Tolkien was active as a lecturer and later as a professor of linguistics and literature while writing during his free time. His fantasy novel "The Hobbit," published in 1937, was a huge success. A short time later he began work on the novels which made him one of the century's major authors. Despite his success, he always considered writing a hobby.Tolkien worked on "The Lord of the Rings" for 15 years, refining his story on the highly complex fantasy empire. His series of novels fascinated millions of readers and become among the bestselling books of all times. Film adaptations of "The Lord of the Rings" were awarded 17 Oscars, with box office receipts over $3 billion.John Ronald Tolkien spent the last years of his life working on "Silmarillion," which tells of the events leading to the narrative "The Lord of the Rings." But before completing his work, he died. Following his wish, his son Christopher reworked, completed and published the unfinished stories.Tolkien, a devout Catholic, died in 1973, two years after his wife. They were both buried at this cemetery in Oxford. Written on their gravestone are the names Beren and L thien - lovers in Tolkien's fantasy world. He was inspired to create these two characters by his love for his wife. Author: Felix Schlagwein (ad)