The government of Finland avoided breaking apart on Tuesday after Prime Minister Juha Sipila announced that his ruling coalition would continue with a newly-formed party after it split from the main populist party, The Finns.A total of 20 out of The Finns' 37 lawmakers left the party and formed a new faction called the New Alternative group, including Foreign Minster Timo Soini who stepped down this weekend after 20 years as party leader.The New Alternative committed to working with the government's program, including immigration and European Union issues.Sipila has headed a three-party coalition comprised of his Centre Party, the conservative National Coalition and anti-immigration, euroskeptic The Finns since May 2015.Read: Finland to ramp up troop levels amid heightened Russian tensions"This is naturally a very pleasant solution from my point of view," Sipila told reporters. "We're able now to end this (government) situation in less than one day."He also told reporters he had been on his way to tender his government's resignation with Finnish President Sauli Niinisto when news broke about the split in The Finns. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ZK19Issues with hate speech-convicted leaderOn Monday, Sipila ousted The Finns after it elected hardliner Jussi Halla-aho as the new leader of Finland's second-largest party.The election threatened to end the coalition as other party leaders said they would refuse to work with Halla-aho, who has been convicted of hate speech.Finland's highest court upheld a conviction against Halla-aho for inciting ethnic hatred and blasphemy in a 2008 blog post where he made offensive remarks about Somalis and Islam.Halla-aho said he was surprised by the number of lawmakers who left the party after he assumed leadership."I had expected that one or a few MPs could make that decision (to leave the party), but I could not have anticipated such a big defection," Halla-aho told reporters. "It doesn't feel good."The 46-year-old member of the European Parliament had previously said he wanted to steer The Finns further to the right and push for tougher immigration policies.The new coalition - which does not plan to make ministerial changes - will face a confidence vote in Parliament in the coming days.rs/rt (AP, AFP)Originally an oil-cloth factory, Marimekko turned to garment design in the mid-1950s after founder Armi Ratia asked artist friends to add graphic prints to the textiles. The rest, as they say, is history, as Marimekko has gone on to define Finnish fashion. On a simply-cut dress, the wild graphics pushed boundaries - and changed the way that women, including Jackie Kennedy, dressed. Artist Touko Laaksonen became a gay cultural icon for his homoerotic drawings of fetishistic art. Best known as Tom of Finland, the artist's sketches have adorned everything from bedding to clothing by a company of the same name. A documentary released in 2017 looks at his life and the controversies his work have caused, especially in the US, where attempts were made in the 1960s to censor it.Tove Jansson was part of the Swedish-speaking minority in Finland so many mistake her trademark works as originating from the country's western neighbor. While Jansson wrote inspiring fiction, she is best known for the Moomins, a children's series she wrote and illustrated. Moomin Valley, where the stories take place, is reminiscent of Finland, with its lakes, forests and long, dark winters.The sauna as we know it originated in Finland - the word as well as the concept. Although many European countries have adopted the smokehouse-style tradition after being introduced to it during World War II, in Finland they say more decisions are made in the sauna than in meetings. Just don't forget your vasta - the bundle of fresh birch twigs to hit yourself with is said to be good for your skin.At the 2017 Berlinale, director Aki Olavi Kaurism ki announced that his Silver Bear-winning film on the struggles of a Syrian refugee to integrate in Finland, "The Other Side of Hope" (photo), would be his last. The director, who'd won the Cannes Grand Prix in 2002 for "The Man without a Past" is one of the best known Finnish film directors. He's also responsible for the Leningrad Cowboys.What started as a joke by director Aki Olavi Kaurism ki grew into a 13-member comedy rock band that still plays live 30 years after its debut. Sporting troubadours and tuxedos, the Leningrad Cowboys have starred in a number of Kaurism ki movies. Though their unique look may be more memorable than their music, they still fill concert halls as they poke fun at world politics with remade covers. Perhaps the most memorable band to come out of Finland in recent years is Lordi, who won the 2006 Eurovision Song Contest with "Hard Rock Hallelujah." While their win may have taken some by surprise - ESC is more sugar-pop than death rock - Finland has had a long tradition of producing influential hard rock acts. In the 1980s, the glam rock band Hanoi Rocks is said to have inspired Guns N' Roses. One of the world's most technologically-advanced countries, Finland was the first to create its own set of emojis. The symbols, found online at ThisisFinland.fi, reflect natural phenomenon like the white nights and snow in summer as well as popular free time activities, like the midsummer bonfire and sauna. We couldn't expect less of a country which made broadband access a legal right.The second best country in the world for mothers according to Save The Children, Finland also has an unusual tradition: the baby box. Since 1949, new parents have been given a box with baby essentials, including diapers, snowsuit, a baby thermometer and condoms. Once the welcome gifts are unpacked, the box can serve as a bed for the infant, wrapped in the receiving blanket already tucked inside. Lapland, the northernmost region of Finland, covers nearly 30 percent of the country's landmass, yet it only houses three percent of the population. Long, snowy winters are one of the reasons; while in the south of the country, the sun rises for six hours a day in December, in the north, darkness prevails. The night sky allows for a polar glow, the beautiful natural light show, Aurora Borealis. Author: Courtney Tenz