The German parliament, or Bundestag, on Friday passed a bill legalizing same-sex marriages in a snap vote that made it onto the agenda before the summer break after a surprise shift by Chancellor Angela Merkel.The bill passed by 393 to 226, with four abstentions. Merkel herself voted against the bill, although her comments helped bring it about.However, more than 70 members of Merkel's conservative bloc must have voted in favor of the bill for it to pass.Merkel later explained her "no" vote by saying that she understood the definition of marriage in the German constitution as referring solely to unions between men and women. She said, however, that she hoped the vote to approve gay marriage would lead to "more social peace."Although she voted against homosexual marriage, she said that after long reflection she had come to the conclusion that same-sex couples should be able to adopt children, which is something the new bill will legalize.A 'success for democracy'Volker Beck of the Green party, who has long advocated legalizing same-sex marriage, called the vote "a success for democracy," citing opinion polls showing that 80 percent of Germans were in favor of allowing homosexual couples to marry and adopt children.Ahead of the vote, Gerda Hasselfeldt from the CSU, which has vehemently opposed the measure, said heterosexual marriage that could produce children was the basis of society, adding that she could not understand "how people could simply put aside something that went to constitute our state."Germany's approval of homosexual marriages adds it to the growing list of Western countries that allow such unions. Fourteen European countries have now made gay marriage legal, with the Netherlands leading the way in 2001. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fjoICampaign ploy?The way was paved for a vote on Monday night when Merkel said she wanted the issue to become one of "conscience," suggesting that she would allow a free vote among her own divided party. Her Social Democrat rival for the role of chancellor, Martin Schulz, pounced on Merkel's comments the next day, advocating an immediate vote in parliament, before September's elections.The bill was put on the agenda for the last day before the summer break by the center-left Social Democrats (SPD), the Greens and the Left party. Merkel's CDU/CSU bloc had criticized the SPD's move, saying that they had previously agreed not to hold a parliamentary vote on the issue during their coalition.Schulz was quick to hail the outcome of the vote, saying that marriage for all meant "unity, justice and freedom" for all Germans who love each other, quoting from the German national anthem.Responses poured in around the country. Bundesliga football club Hertha Berlin sent a clear signal in the capital, hoisting a rainbow flag and posting video footage of the event.Since 2001 Germany has allowed civil partnerships, but not full marital rights, which would include the possibility to jointly adopt children.Out-foxed or pragmatic?Schulz had forced the speedy vote, saying he would "take the chancellor at her word." However, while some would consider the chancellor and CDU to have been wrong-footed, an alternative theory - that Merkel wanted to remove same-sex marriage as an election issue - has been floated. After all, Monday's comments did appear to be her laying foundations for a vote on the same issue in the next legislative period.All three potential partners in government with the CDU - the Social Democrats (SPD), Greens and pro-business Free Democrats - had declared same-sex marriage as a red-line demand for entering into any future coalition.Read also: Opinion: Angela Merkel's calculated change of heart on gay marriageMoments after parliament endorsed "marriage for all," with 393 in favor, 226 against and four abstentions, same-sex couples in the chamber's public gallery openly kissed and hugged one another. Those voting in favor included 75 members of Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative CDU-CSU bloc.Following the vote, a sober-looking Chancellor Angela Merkel waiting in parliament's canteen revealed to journalists that she voted against the legislation because of her "basic belief" in marriage being solely "between a man and woman." She claimed her belief was anchored in the German constitution.For same-sex advocates, the first legislative hurdle was to get the bill - rejected 30 times in committee - onto the agenda in parliament. Its procedural adoption via a consensus reached between the Greens, the Left and the Social Democrats left Merkel and conservative whip Volker Kauder taken back. Kauder insisted that as a Christian he could only accept marriage between a man and a woman.Social Democrat Johannes Kahrs, a same-sex marriage advocate who organized parliament's cross-party "yes" bloc for the snap vote, accused Merkel and her conservatives of "wretchedly" blocking the measure for years. "I'm fed up. We deserve [gender] equality," Kahrs told parliament. He said the legislative victory was a turning point in history similar to the fall of the Berlin Wall. Greens parliamentarians showered their retiring colleague and same-sex advocate Volker Beck with confetti as the vote result was announced. Later in tears, he told German television that the "yes" vote had helped restore harmony in German society. The "wall" has fallen, Becker said, adding that the key was how two individuals cared for one another, regardless of their gender. SPD leader Martin Schulz (right) said the vote was a "victory," less so for his center-left party but for the dignity of the individual, as enshrined in Article 1 of Germany's constitution. SPD whip Thomas Oppermann (center) said the vote was "good for the public," even if it didn't align with Merkel's vision on the matter.Dozens of activists celebrated the legislation outside the Bundestag in the aftermath of the vote. A Bild newspaper survey earlier in the week showed three quarters of Germany's population favored legal recognition of same-sex marriage. In 2001, legal reform recognized homosexuals in partnerships but left gay couples unable to jointly adopt children.Countries across Europe, the Americas and Oceania have adopted same sex marriage. This map shows the situation across the world prior to the Bundestag vote. Despite the legislative victory in Germany, same-sex marriage remains a controversial issue in many parts of the world, most notably in the Middle East, Africa and parts of Asia.The legal recognition of same-sex marriage marked a dream come true for former Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle, who died of leukemia in 2016. He long fought for sexual equality and the recognition of constitutional rights for same-sex couples. Author: Ian P. Johnson