The White House warned late Monday that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad could be preparing another chemical weapons attack and threatened a harsh response should he proceed.The White House released a statement accusing Syria of conducting preparations similar to those undertaken before an April 4 chemical attack that killed dozens of civilians and prompted the US to launch a missile strike on a Syrian air base.Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.In April the US launched a missile strike against a Syrian air-base in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on civilians. The attacked marked a sharp turn-around in US Syrian policy, with President Donald Trump long advocating against direct action against the Syrian regime.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has aided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher "The United States has identified potential preparations for another chemical weapons attack by the Assad regime that would likely result in the mass murder of civilians, including innocent children," White House spokesman Sean Spicer said in the statement."If ... Mr. Assad conducts another mass murder attack using chemical weapons, he and his military will pay a heavy price," he said.Read: Almost 500 dead in month of US-led Syria strikes: monitorRead: Are US and Russia inching toward confrontation in Syria?The US ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, added on Twitter: "Any further attacks done to the people of Syria will be blamed on Assad, but also on Russia & Iran who support him killing his own people."White House officials did not comment further on the situation. US-based media, including the Associated Press, LA Times and Buzzfeed, all reported that other US security agencies - such as the Pentagon, State Department and intelligence agencies - were blindsided by the announcement. Ordinarily, the White House would coordinate before issuing such statements.Last alleged attack in AprilThe White House said that the preparations being undertaken by Syria were similar to those before an alleged chemical attack on April 4.Assad, backed by his ally Russia, strongly denied his forces were responsible for that attack against the rebel-held town of Khan Sheikhun, describing it as a "100 percent fabrication."He repeatedly claimed that his forces had turned over all chemical weapons stockpiles in 2013, under a deal brokered by Russia to avoid threatened US military action. The agreement was later included in a United Nations Security Council resolution.In response to Assad's alleged use of chemical weapons Trump ordered a cruise missile attack on a Syrian airbaseBut US Defense Secretary Jim Mattis previously warned that there was "no doubt" that Syria retained some of its chemical weapons. An Israeli military assessment also found that Assad's regime was still in possession of "a few tons" of chemical weapons.After the April 4 attack Trump ordered a cruise missile strike on the airbase that the attack was allegedly flown out of. It was the first direct American assault on the Syrian government and Trump's most dramatic military order since becoming president months before.At the time US officials called the intervention a "one-off" intended to deter future chemical weapons attacks and not an expansion of the US role in the Syrian war.aw/msh (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa)