The news of Helmut Kohl's death, which broke on Friday, triggered a wave of responses from politicians around the world, expressing sadness at the passing of the leader credited with reunifying Germany.European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said that Kohl "was a great European and a great friend."Flags at European institutions would be flying at half mast as a tribute to the man who "filled the European house with life."Former Chancellor Helmut Kohl has died, aged 87. Having led Germany for 16 years, he is remembered for reuniting the country as well as for making a huge political and economic contribution to the integration of Europe. (16.06.2017) DW's former editor-in-chief, Alexander Kudascheff, pays tribute to Germany's longest-serving chancellor. (16.06.2017) 'A rock - both steady and strong'Former US President George H. W. Bush, who cooperated with Kohl and the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev to reunite East and West Germany at the end of the Cold War, also mourned Kohl's death. Bush described Kohl as "a true friend of freedom," saying the considered him "one of the greatest leaders in post-war Europe.""Working closely with my very good friend [ ] will remain one of the greatest joys of my life. Throughout our endeavors, Helmut was a rock - both steady and strong," Bush said on Friday.Kohl had spoken to his biographers at length about his friendship with Bush, whom he met while the American was still serving as vice president under Ronald Reagan.The last USSR leader, Mikhail Gorbachev, said Kohl was an "outstanding person" whose impact on world history would stand the test of time.According to Gorbachev, the former German chancellor "would be noted in the chronicles of our time not only because of his personal qualities, but also because he found himself at the helm of his country during a time of unprecedented turmoil" including the fall of the Berlin Wall."In such cases, a lot depends on the people taking decisions. It was very fortunate that the leading countries, at the time, had statesmen with a sense of responsibility [ ] capable of reaching through the barrier of suspicion towards partnership and trust." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2eq9aGerman Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel also praised Kohl as a "great statesman," and lauded his legacy of helping Europe grow closer. "A great German has died," Gabriel said.Merkel lauds her CDU predecessor's foresightGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel was on a diplomatic visit to Rome when the death of Kohl, a Roman Catholic, was made public. She described her mentor as a "stroke of luck" for Germany."Helmut Kohl decisively influenced the course of my life, too," she said in Italy.Her spokesman Steffen Seibert responded to the news on Twitter, saying Berlin was "deeply mourning" the death of the conservative politician.Russian President Vladimir Putin send his condolences to Chancellor Merkel and German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, mourning the passing of "one of the patriarchs of European and global politics.""I was fortunate to personally meet Helmut Kohl. I was honestly amazed by his wisdom, his ability to take thought-out, far-sighted solutions even in the most complex of situations. In Russia, he will be remembered as a principled advocate of friendly relations between our countries," Putin said.French President Emmanuel Macron posted a German language tweet praising Kohl for paving the road to "united Germany and German-French friendship."President Steinmeier said Kohl was an "exceptional politician" with a "strong character.""He was deeply convinced that Europe was our destiny," Steinmeier said.Even Germany's Left party, the spiritual successor to the East German communists, joined in "the mourning for a great European," on Friday. The party leaders said that Kohl "never allowed the divisions in the country to grow as large as they have under his successors, and has managed to avoid plunging Germany into military adventures."'Prepared Europe for 21st century'Helmut Kohl remains the longest serving German chancellor, heading the Cabinet from 1982 to 1998. Kohl's successor in the Chancellery, Gerhard Schr der, praised Kohl as a German patriot."Even though we led a tough election battle in 1998 and differed on many political issues, I have the greatest respect for his historical efforts," Schr der said.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu described Kohl as a "friend of Israel" who was "fully committed" to the security of the Jewish state.UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres also mourned Kohl as a "personal friend" and praised his historical role in uniting Germany, according to his spokesman Stephane Dujarric. The UN chief served as Portuguese Prime Minister between 1995 and 2002.European Council President Donald Tusk and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg also posted their reactions online.Former US President Bill Clinton said Kohl's "visionary leadership prepared Germany and all of Europe for the 21st century.""I will never forget walking with him through the Brandenburg Gate in 1994 for a large rally on the eastern side, and seeing genuine hope in the eyes of tens of thousands of young people," he said. "I knew at that moment that Helmut Kohl was the man who could help them realize their dreams. History continues to prove that he delivered." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2epwv