Current prime minister, or "Taoiseach," 66-year-old Enda Kenny announced his resignation last month after six years at the head of the centrist party, setting off a battle to lead the ruling Fine Gael.On Friday, Varadkar won the leadership contest with 60 percent of the electoral college against his only rival Simon Coveney on 40 percent, the party said on Twitter. Varadkar is set to become the youngest leader in the European Union in what is being seen as a change in political generations and social outlook in Ireland."If somebody of my age, of my mixed race background and of all the things that make up my character can potentially become leader of our country, then I think that sends out a message to every child born today that there is no office in Ireland that they can't aspire to," Varadkar told Newstalk radio earlier this week.The Fine Gael parliamentary party voted overwhelmingly, 70 percent, in favor of Varadkar while members, 65 percent, had favored Coveney. As Varadkar was backed by most lawmakers and local representatives he gained victory under the center-right party's electoral college system.Varadkar's position will be confirmed later this month after parliament resumes after a break. Youngest son of Indian immigrantVaradkar's father, Ashok, a doctor, moved to Ireland in the 1970s and his youngest son was born in Dublin in 1979. He studied medicine at Trinity College and spent several years as a junior doctor before qualifying as a general practitioner in 2010. He came to public prominence in 2015 when Ireland voted in favor of gay marriage.In May 2015 Irish voters approved same-sex marriage in a referendumThe new party leader was first elected in local elections in 2003 and in 2007 to the lower house of Ireland's assembly, the Dail Eireann.Varadkar is on the right wing of the centrist Fine Gael and has held three cabinet posts since 2011 - for social protection, health and transport, tourism and sport. He recently headed a publicity campaign highlighting social welfare fraud.His most pressing first international task will be negotiating Ireland's new arrangement with the UK after it leaves the European Union. In a radio interview in 2015, Varadkar spoke for the first time about being gay: "It's not something that defines me. I'm not a half-Indian politician, or a doctor politician or a gay politician for that matter. It's just part of who I am, it doesn't define me, it is part of my character I suppose."His partner is also a doctor, in Dublin.Mussel fishermen share many of the concerns about Britain's divorce from the European Union. They are also felt by many people who earn a living along the border between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic.Many fishermen have an additional headache on top of the prospect of tariffs and trade disruption: the waters in which they fish are the subject of a territorial row that stretches back decades. Carlingford Lough is a waterway that forms part of the border between the county of Down in British-run Northern Ireland and Louth in EU member Ireland. In this picture Northern Ireland is seen on the left and the Republic of Ireland on the right with Carlingford Lough in the middle. Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny has said it is of "vital national interest" that no physical barrier or customs controls be put back on the border, winning initial EU backing. But the fishermen of Carlingford Lough fear their concerns will not be a priority.Fisherman MacDonald explains: "No one can define who owns what. Neither of the two governments have defined the border here and nobody can say where is the North and where is the South. We're stuck in the middle and nobody wants to talk to us about it."In fact, talks are ongoing between the Irish and British governments relating to the jurisdiction of Carlingford Lough and the unresolved ownership of Lough Foyle, which lies to the west between Donegal and Derry. The Loughs Agency, a cross-border body overseeing both areas, said that in a statement.Mussel fisherman Brian Cunningham, seen here with his skipper Shay Fitzpatrick, explains, that most boats based in Northern Ireland normally fish off the coast in the Republic of Ireland. He thus fears that Brexit could lead to a doubling up of paperwork such as trawler registrations. This adds costs that would hurt the industry. "When Brexit comes, what's going to happen? We're going to have to jump through hoops that by the time the paper work is sorted out our mussels will be dead. Mussels are landed live, processed live and sold live to the customer. It's a live animal, so it's going to be very, very difficult," Cunningham says. Author: Nadine Berghausen jm/sms (AP, Reuters)