The project, titled "Multaka" or "meeting point" in Arabic, was started a little over a year ago by Stefan Weber, the director of the Islamic Art Museum at the Pergamon Museum in Berlin. The Pergamon Museum is one of the most important museums on the "Museum Island" in the country's capital. Other prominent museums on the island where Multaka tours take place include the Bode-Museum, which features Byzantine art, the Near East museum and the German History museum. The tours take place at 3 pm (CET) in the afternoon on Wednesday and Saturdays. "You can enter the museum for free and I will be accompanying you to tell you about the exhibits in Arabic," Kefah Ali Deeb, a renowned writer and artist said at the door of the Near East Museum. She herself is a refugee: having fled to Berlin from Syria in fall 2014.Opportunity to come closer to GermanyKefah, along with 19 other refugee volunteer guides involved in project, take an interest in history, archeology and the fine arts. They've been trained to lead tour groups to other refugees who might only be able to follow the tour in Arabic. The guides help them learn more about the exhibits in their native language."The tours are important in bringing confidence to the refugees. It shows them that anyone in Germany can enter museums and that they can engage in cultural activities without the fear of not understanding what they are observing. When I first came to Berlin, I did not know if I was allowed to enter museums and I didn't have the courage to enter them. So when I heard the idea of the project I found it great because I thought that maybe it could help other refugees like myself," Kafah Ali Deeb told InfoMigrants.The group passed through the entrance of the Ishtar Gate, a relic from the Babylonian civilization in Iraq which stood in the middle of a large hall. The visitors from Syria and Iraq were familiar with the Gate and the other Babylonian relics as they came from the same region. Due to the visitors' familiarity , the tour guide asked questions of the visitors to help stir up their imagination and provide them with a deeper understanding of the artifacts being displayed.Kefah Ali Deeb giving a tour in the Islamic Art MuseumA chance to learn more about home"There are usually around 10 to 30 people in each tour group and many of them go more than once in order to go with different guides to get more information. Some of them come again and bring their friends, who then go on to the rest of the museums," Kefah says as she moves in front of of a Gate of the ancient Greek city of Melitus. She then explains the importance of the private sector in the construction of cities in ancient times and then leads the group through the Assyrian procession street.Many of the museum's original pieces were taken from Iraq or the Levant, which is surprising to many of the visitors ."I was afraid that this would make the visitors sad, but on the contrary, they were happy to see these relics and artifacts in good condition," Kefah said."The tour is more than wonderful and the most important thing is that it is in Arabic," one of the Syrian visitors in the group said."All of this civilization was in my home country and now I get the chance here to learn more about it," he said.In the Assyrian halls of the museum, Kefah tells stories about kings and guides the group through paintings and sculptures of the era. She explains the religious and economic connotations of the exhibits and continues to ask questions and initiate discussions with the visitors.She considers the tour to be different, as it is not just learning about the exhibits, but helping the newcomers integrate into German society. The tour is an opportunity for them to meet new people in Germany and by the end of each tour they make new friends. They often go outside to a garden next to the museum and continue their conversations there.The project has been awarded the German Prize for the best project promoting integration of refugees in 2016 and has also been nominated for many other awards. The initative plans to include other museums and possibly other cities. The project will also be promoted at the Long Night of Museums in August, where museums such as the Pergamon will be open late into the evening.The German Basic Law is important to me because it also mentions our rights as refugees. Our rights are respected in Germany. I am 18 years old and I have been in Germany for one and a half years. I fled together with my parents and brothers from Damascus. The safety I find here is very dear to me. I was introduced to the German Basic Law in my integration course. We discussed basic human rights. I was impressed that childrens' rights are very important and that men and women are equal. For people who have lived in dictatorships, this is something very special. I also appreciate the respect for religious diversity.In Germany, there is democracy and equality for all. In my country Afghanistan, this is different. There is no gender equality. Not everyone can receive education, not everyone can work. The Basic Law is complicated on the one hand, because I don t understand everything, as I come from a different culture. But on the other hand, it lays out clearly the rights of the people which I value greatly.Every person has their own dignity that cannot be taken away. That's why the Basic Law is important to me. It states that human dignity is inviolable. The right to freedom - to religious freedom, to freedom of expression, to a life without restraints - is something I truly value as long as it does not limit the freedoms of others, of course.Under the German law, everyone is equal. In my country, this is not the case. Army officers and the secret service stand above the law; women and men are not treated as equals. The first paragraph is especially important to me. It talks about dignity and freedom. When the Syrian revolution began, people were demanding the same. In Germany, they wrote this in their Basic Law already in 1949.The Basic Law is important to me because it guarantees my freedoms and my rights. Under this law, people of different ethnic backgrounds, religions and cultures can live together peacefully in one country. I also think it is important because it states that no one is above the law. I like that religion and politics are separated under the German Basic Law. I also appreciate that it lays out particular rights for women and that it condemns discrimination. The inviolability of human dignity is very important to me too. InfoMigrants - All Rights ReservedInfoMigrants is not responsible for the content of external websites.Source: InfoMigrants2017