DW takes a look at the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party - the newest force in German politics. What is it, where did it come from and what role will it play in the 2017 federal election? Here are all the answers. (16.05.2017) Delegates at a barricaded Cologne congress of Germany's right-wing populist AfD party have rejected a motion from leader Frauke Petry. (22.04.2017) PEGIDA had long called for a joint demonstration with Alternative for Germany (AfD) members. This is the first time the two groups stood together in public. (09.05.2017) The woman who threw a shaving cream pie at Alternative for Germany (AfD) European lawmaker Beatrix von Storch in November opted for jail instead of a 150 euro ($168) fine on Monday. The 22-year-old student was found guilty by the court in the northern German city of Kiel of throwing the pie during a political event. She said she preferred to serve a prison term as a form of protest."I do not want to pay any money," the student said in court. "I want to serve the sentence in prison."Member of the European Parliament (MEP) von Storch did not attend Monday's court hearing, which saw dozens of protesters outside of the courthouse. The elder daughter of Huno, Duke of Oldenburg, and Felicitas-Anita, Countess Schwerin von Krosigk, born Beatrix Amelie Ehrengard Eilika, Duchess of Oldenburg, by tradition holds the style of "Your Highness." Her mother is a daughter of Lutz Graf Schwerin von Krosigk, who served as finance minister under Adolf Hitler. Von Storch was a banker before she studied law in Heidelberg and Lausanne.It is not the first time that 46-year-old von Storch has been hit with a pastry by protesters. In February 2016 she was hit with a cake by two protesters dressed as clowns at a party meeting in Kassel. The two Berlin protesters accepted a penalty without a trial, as it was considered a minor offense.The AfD was founded in 2013 as an EU-skeptic party and has since included a strong anti-immigration stance. The party is expected to pass the 5 percent threshold to enter the German Bundestag in September's general election. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2doNSkbd/jm (dpa, NDR)