US President Donald Trump on Wednesday backed efforts to overhaul legal immigration by prioritizing highly-skilled workers proficient in English, while halving the number of legal migrants able to reside in the country under the "green card" program.Under the proposal known as the RAISE Act - put forward by Republican Senator David Perdue and Tom Cotton, the US would introduce a points-based system akin to Canada and Australia's legal immigration scheme.Read more: Immigrants strive for US passports out of fear of futureDuring the press conference at the White House, Trump said the draft legislation represents the "most significant reform to our immigration system in half a century.""This legislation demonstrates our compassion for struggling American families who deserve an immigration system that puts their needs first and puts America first," Trump said.While Trump campaigned on a platform to uproot irregular migration and deport thousands of illegal immigrants from the US, he also vowed to reform the process to obtain legal residency.Read more: Could Trump actually fulfill his immigration policies? Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2gU7d'Devastating'However, the draft legislation has been criticized by rights groups as well as key Republican lawmakers who fear it could undermine the American economy.Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said that while he supports a merit-based immigration scheme, the Trump-backed plan would directly impact his home state.Read more: White House stability 'depends on if people fall in line or not'"Unfortunately, other part of (the) proposal reduces legal immigration by half, including many immigrants who work legally in agriculture, tourism and service," he wrote in a tweet."If proposal were to become law, (it would be) devastating to the South Carolina economy, which relies on this immigration workforce."In a migrant shelter in the southern Mexican city of Tenosique, near the Guatemalan border, a refugee from Honduras says he originally planned to move to the United States with his family. Trump's election has changed everything. "I wanted to go to the United States with my family, but we've seen that the new government there has made things harder." Concepcion Bautista from Guatemala cradles her newborn son in the same migrant shelter. She says she plans to head for the United States, but will linger in Mexico to see how US President Donald Trump's immigration policies play out. Her goal is to reunite with her family up north ..... but for the time being, she believes applying for asylum in Mexico is a smarter move. Mexican asylum data and testimony from migrants in Tenosique suggest that although fewer Central Americans are trying to enter the US, plenty are still fleeing their poor, violent home countries, with many deciding to stay longer in Mexico, which has traditionally been a transit country.The Trump administration has pointed out a sharp decline in immigrant detentions in the first few months of this year as a vindication for the president's tough immigration policies. The measures are already having another effect. In California, where farmers usually rely on workers from Mexico to bring in the harvest, many Mexicans are staying away, prefering to find work in their own country.Migrants from Central America play football in the migrant shelter in Tenosique. The number of people applying for asylum in Mexico has soared by more than 150 percent since Trump was elected president. these days, Mexican immigrants would rather set up in Canada than the United States. In a remote area near the Guatemalan border, two migrants try to sneak past Mexican immigration officers on their long trek north. One man from Guatemala says the prices charged by people smugglers have risen sharply since Trump took office, now hovering around $10,000 (9,100 euros), up from about $6,000 a few years ago.With Mexico's immigration authorities controlling migration more assiduously, Central Americans were forced to take more isolated, dangerous routes where the chances of being mugged were higher. "We've gone north several times, but every time it's got harder," says one man, who was deported from the United States in December. "Now, it's better if we travel alone, along new routes." Author: Nadine Berghausen 'White nationalist agenda'Anti-discrimination group Southern Poverty Law Center said the plan "very much reflects a white nationalist agenda."Its provisions reflect the shameful agenda of nativists and white nationalists who fear the growing diversity of our country," it said in a statement.Since February, when Perdue and Cotton introduced the draft legislation in Congress, the two senators have failed to find a co-sponsor. This means it is unlikely to move forward without further efforts from the White House.In 2016, more than one million people gained residency in the US through the "green card" system.'Mother of Exiles'The Trump administration's stance on immigration, both irregular and legal, continues to cause controversy.On Wednesday, senior White House aide Stephen Miller told the press that a poem written by Emma Lazarus about the "huddled masses" was "not actually part of the original Statue of Liberty."Lady Liberty, as she is often called in the US, became a figure of hope for thousands of immigrants who arrived to US via Ellis Island in the first half of the 20th century.The US National Park Service said the poem depicts iconic statue "as the 'Mother of Exiles': a symbol of immigration and opportunity symbols associated with the Statue of Liberty today." Indeed, the poem was later inscribed on a plaque and placed on the statue's pedestal.ls/rt (AFP, AP)