Venezuela's new "constituent assembly," a body tasked with rewriting the country's constitution, held its first meeting on Friday, as opposition leaders called on Venezuelans to protest in the streets of the capital, Caracas, to reject what they see as a move to destroy democracy.Read more: What is Venezuela's constituent assembly?President Nicolas Maduro has said the assembly, elected last weekend in a vote that critics allege was manipulated, will strip opposition lawmakers of their constitutional immunity from prosecution. The opposition has refused to recognize the new body, which includes Maduro's wife and son among its more than 500 members and is composed largely of presidential loyalists.At the first session, former Foreign Minister Delcy Rodriguez, a close Maduro ally, was sworn in as president of the new assembly, while former Vice President Aristobulo Isturiz was chosen as his deputy. Venezuela has already seen months of protestsInternational rejectionPlans to install the new assembly provoked an international outcry, with the United States, the European Union and major Latin American countries all saying they would not recognize it. The Vatican has also urged Maduro not to go ahead with the assembly, calling on the government "to ensure full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the existing constitution."The constituent assembly has unlimited powers to dissolve the country's legislature, the National Assembly, and amend laws, in addition to its task of rewriting the 1999 constitution brought in under late President Hugo Chavez. Maduro says the new constitution will end Venezuela's political and economic crisis, though he gave no details on how these ends would be attained.The pope, seen here with Maduro, has also rejected the bodyThe National Assembly, which meets only meters away in the same palace complex as the new body, is currently held by the opposition.The calls for protests on Friday have raised fears of more violence, with the death toll from demonstrations over the past four months already at more than 125. Demonstrators were expected to gather in Caracas and converge on the legislative palace in the afternoon local time.The meeting of the Constituent Assembly was preceded by a march by delegates and hundreds of government supporters dressed in red shirts and carrying large pictures of Chavez.Maduro supporters were much in evidence outside the legislative palace as the meeting beganOpposition figure released back into house arrestVenezuela's domestic intelligence service has meanwhile transferred Caracas Mayor Antonio Ledezma, a vocal critic of Maduro, from prison back to house arrest, his family said on Friday. Ledezma and another anti-government figure, Leopoldo Lopez, had been taken from home detention to military prisons on Tuesday.Ledezma is back under house arrestLopez remains in prison, along with hundreds of other people that the opposition says are political prisoners.Venezuela remains in the grip of a severe economic crisis, with food and medicine in short supply. The country's currency, the bolivar, lost 20 percent of its value against the US dollar on Thursday, and plummeted a further 12 percent on Friday.Although a majority of Venezuelans reject Maduro's leadership according to surveys, he enjoys the backing of the military and judicial and electoral authorities.Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands have since taken to the streets to call for new elections. They show no signs of stopping.As of March, Venezuela's inflation rate surpassed 220 percent, according to the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics. The country's largest bill - the 100 bolivar note - was worth just $0.04 at the end of last year. Shopping trips now require stacks, or even bags, of cash to buy the bare necessities.An estimated 80 percent of food items and other basics were in short supply by last year. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement.In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever.Electricity blackouts and fuel shortages have also driven Venezuelans to desperation. Despite Venezuela's possession of the world's largest oil reserves, drivers face long lines at the gas pump. A 50-percent collapse in oil prices in 2014 devastated the oil-dependent economy. In 2013, revenues were $80 billion. That figure dropped to $20 billion by 2016, according to IMF figures.Lower poverty rates, better education and health, and economic growth: These are all part of the legacy of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Equally part of the socialist's legacy was mismanagement. Not only did he fail to keep the state oil company up to date under increased government control, but his government also overspent despite a drop in oil production after 2006.Chavez's hand-picked successor, Nicolas Maduro, has been in office for four years and has two more to go. The opposition center-right coalition, which has controlled the National Assembly since 2015, has accused him of "abandoning his post" by failing to stem the economic devastation. It has also denounced him for rights abuses.From the governor of Miranda to the mayor of Venezuela's capital Caracas, authorities have attempted to quash anti-government protests by arresting its opposition leaders. Venezuelan authorities have detained Leopoldo Lopez, Antonio Ledezma and Henrique Capriles, considered the face of the opposition movement.Aside from protests, the opposition collected 2 million signatures for a referendum last year, roughly 10 times the number required. And in a move against the Supreme Court - and in lieu of impeachment hearings - it also held a symbolic trial for Maduro. Numerous attempts to stymie its efforts to pressure the government have only emboldened these lawmakers.Since the outbreak of explosive protests in April, scores of people have died and hundreds more have been injured. Rights campaigners say police have arrested thousands. Meanwhile, the government has pushed through with the election of an all-powerful constituent assembly, which critics are afraid will cement Maduro's grasp on power. Author: Kathleen Schuster tj/ng (AP, AFP