The office of Attorney General Luisa Ortega Diaz announced Thursday on Twitter that two prosecutors from her team had submitted a court claim seeking to suspend Friday's planned installation of the National Constituent Assembly, a newly-elected and highly contested body tasked by President Nicolas Maduro to rewrite Venezuela's constitution.Ortega's request to a preliminary proceedings court - seen as a move to circumvent the Maduro-friendly Supreme Court - was "based on suspected crimes committed" during last Sunday's election, the office's second tweet on the subject said.Ortega has been an outspoken critic of Maduro, who has previously challenged the constitutionality of the new assembly. Earlier on Thursday Venezuela's top attorney announced she had opened an investigation into government manipulation of turnout in Sunday's election, during which members were chosen for the 545-seat Constituent Assembly.Read more: Venezuelan election turnout 'manipulated,' says poll-assist firmAttorney General Luisa Ortega Diaz is a former ally turned vocal critic of President Nicolas MaduroThe country's opposition boycotted the vote, which also drew international condemnation from Mexico, Colombia, Argentina, and the European Union and saw the United States issue sanctions on the socialist nation. Maduro's critics see the body as a tool to override Venezuela's separation of powers and consolidate Maduro's executive control.On Thursday the opposition also announced a new round of demonstrations to take place on Friday, calling on Venezuelans to "defend the constitution." Protests between Maduro opponents and supporters have left more than 120 people dead over four months.Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands have since taken to the streets to call for new elections. They show no signs of stopping.As of March, Venezuela's inflation rate surpassed 220 percent, according to the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics. The country's largest bill - the 100 bolivar note - was worth just $0.04 at the end of last year. Shopping trips now require stacks, or even bags, of cash to buy the bare necessities.An estimated 80 percent of food items and other basics were in short supply by last year. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement.In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever.Electricity blackouts and fuel shortages have also driven Venezuelans to desperation. Despite Venezuela's possession of the world's largest oil reserves, drivers face long lines at the gas pump. A 50-percent collapse in oil prices in 2014 devastated the oil-dependent economy. In 2013, revenues were $80 billion. That figure dropped to $20 billion by 2016, according to IMF figures.Lower poverty rates, better education and health, and economic growth: These are all part of the legacy of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Equally part of the socialist's legacy was mismanagement. Not only did he fail to keep the state oil company up to date under increased government control, but his government also overspent despite a drop in oil production after 2006.Chavez's hand-picked successor, Nicolas Maduro, has been in office for four years and has two more to go. The opposition center-right coalition, which has controlled the National Assembly since 2015, has accused him of "abandoning his post" by failing to stem the economic devastation. It has also denounced him for rights abuses.From the governor of Miranda to the mayor of Venezuela's capital Caracas, authorities have attempted to quash anti-government protests by arresting its opposition leaders. Venezuelan authorities have detained Leopoldo Lopez, Antonio Ledezma and Henrique Capriles, considered the face of the opposition movement.Aside from protests, the opposition collected 2 million signatures for a referendum last year, roughly 10 times the number required. And in a move against the Supreme Court - and in lieu of impeachment hearings - it also held a symbolic trial for Maduro. Numerous attempts to stymie its efforts to pressure the government have only emboldened these lawmakers.Since the outbreak of explosive protests in April, scores of people have died and hundreds more have been injured. Rights campaigners say police have arrested thousands. Meanwhile, the government has pushed through with the election of an all-powerful constituent assembly, which critics are afraid will cement Maduro's grasp on power. Author: Kathleen Schuster Trade bloc suspensionThe South American free-trade bloc Mercosur also announced Thursday that it is preparing to suspend oil-rich Venezuela until the country restores democracy and ends human rights violations. Mercosur members are set to suspend Venezuela by invoking the group's democratic clause over the weekend.Caracas was already suspended temporarily in December 2016.In calling for Venezuela's indefinite suspension, Argentine President Mauricio Marci described Venezuela as a country that had "ceased to be a democracy." Mercosur had originally planned to apply the democratic clause at the end of 2017 but decided to move the date forward in the aftermath of Sunday's elections and the arrest of several leaders of the Venezuelan opposition movement.Alongside Argentina, the trade bloc includes Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay. The member nations' ambassadors are scheduled to meet on Saturday in Sao Paolo to enact the suspension and discuss the possibility of harder repercussions for Caracas. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2hX41cmb/gsw (AFP, EFE, Reuters)