The European Commission pleaded with its citizens to reject extreme nationalism, xenophobia and hatred in a statement on Wednesday issued to mark the anniversary of the German-Soviet Nonaggression Pact.The EU's executive arm used the day to remember the victims of the Nazi and Soviet regimes and restated its rejection of the ideologies they were built on."The European Union was built on the common values of human dignity, fundamental rights, rule of law and democracy, and on the rejection of extreme nationalism," the statement said.The villa on Berlin's Wannsee lake was pivotal in planning the Holocaust. 15 members of the Nazi government and the SS Schutzstaffel met here on January 20, 1942 to plan what became known as the "Final Solution," the deportation and extermination of all Jews in German-occupied territory. In 1992, the villa where the Wannsee Conference was held was turned into a memorial and museum.The Nazi regime opened the first concentration camp in Dauchau not far from Munich. Just a few weeks after Adolf Hitler came to power it was used by the paramilitary SS "Schutzstaffel" to imprison, torture and kill political opponents to the regime. Dachau also served as a prototype and model for the other Nazi camps that followed.Nuremberg hosted the biggest Nazi party propaganda rallies from 1933 until the start of the Second World War. The annual Nazi party congress as well as rallies with as many as 200,000 participants took place on the 11-km (4.25 square miles) area. Today, the unfinished Congress Hall building serves as a documentation center and a museum.The Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Lower Saxony was initially established as a prisoner of war camp before becoming a concentration camp. Prisoners too sick to work were brought here from other concentration camps, so many also died of disease. One of the 50,000 killed here was Anne Frank, a Jewish girl who gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published.The Bendlerblock building in Berlin was the headquarters of a military resistance group. On July 20, 1944, a group of Wehrmacht officers around Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg carried out an assassination attempt on Adolf Hitler that failed. The leaders of the conspiracy were summarily shot the same night in the courtyard of the Bendlerblock, which is today the German Resistance Memorial Center.From 1941 people with physical and mental disabilities were killed at a psychiatric hospital in Hadamar in Hesse. Declared "undesirables" by the Nazis, some 15,000 people were murdered here by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide or by being injected with lethal drug overdoses. Across Germany some 70,000 were killed as part of the Nazi-euthanasia program. Today Hadamar is a memorial to those victims.Located next to the Brandenburg Gate, Berlin's Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe was inaugurated sixty years after the end of World War II on May 10, 2005, and opened to the public two days later. Architect Peter Eisenman created a field with 2,711 concrete slabs. An attached underground "Place of Information" holds the names of all known Jewish Holocaust victims.Not too far from the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, another concrete memorial honors the thousands of homosexuals persecuted by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945. The four-meter high monument, which has a window showing alternately a film of two men or two women kissing, was inaugurated in Berlin's Tiergarten on May 27, 2008.Opposite the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin, a park inaugurated in 2012 serves as a memorial to the 500,000 Sinti and Roma people killed by the Nazi regime. Around a memorial pool the poem "Auschwitz" by Roma poet Santino Spinelli is written in English, Germany and Romani: "gaunt face, dead eyes, cold lips, quiet, a broken heart, out of breath, without words, no tears."In the 1990s, the artist Gunther Demnig began a project to confront Germany's Nazi past. Brass-covered concrete cubes were placed in front of the former houses of Nazi victims, providing details on the person as well as the dates of deportation and death, if known. More than 45,000 "Stolpersteine" have been laid in 18 countries in Europe - it's the world's largest decentralized Holocaust memorial.Right next to the "F hrerbau" where Adolf Hitler had his office, the headquarters of the Nazi Party in Germany were based in the "Brown House" in Munich. A white cube now occupies its former location. A new "Documentation Center for the History of National Socialism" opened on April 30, 2015, 70 years after the liberation of the Nazi regime, uncovering further dark chapters of history. Author: Max Zander, Ille Simon Read more: Neo-Nazi marchers in Berlin matched by counterprotesters "We must never take these rights and freedoms for granted. We pledge to fight for them every day."Extremism, nationalism, xenophobia and hatred can still be heard in public speech in Europe. Keeping these memories alive is not only a tribute to the victims but also a way to ensure that these ideologies can be forcefully rejected and such atrocities never happen again."We stand firm in our defense of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, in Europe and worldwide. There is no place in the European Union for extremism, intolerance and oppression."Read more: Identitarian movement - Germany's 'new right' hipsters Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ggKBSoviets and Nazis collude to invade PolandAugust 23 is celebrated as the European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism or Black Ribbon Day. It commemorates the signing the neutrality pact between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union that led to the joint invasion of Poland by the two powers, shortly followed by World War II.Facing an invasion on two fronts Poland's armed forces were defeated and the country was carved up between the Russia and Germany with a small portion being returned to Slovakia.Poland's international embassies posted messages memorializing the signing of the pact.Russian outlets were rather less vocal about the day, instead choosing to memorialize the Soviet defeat of Nazi forces in the Battle of Kursk. The Estonian controversyEstonia, which holds the rotating presidency of the European Council, held a conference Wednesday to investigate the crimes committed by communist regimes. Greece was the only European country to turn down its invitation to the conference titled "The Heritage in 21st Century Europe of the Crimes Committed by Communist Regimes," saying it was an attempt to whitewash history."We have never believed that communism is a criminal ideology like Nazism," the Greek Justice Minister said a letter to the conference organizers. The rejection was gleefully picked up by Russian state news agency Sputnik.Tens of millions of people were deported, tortured and killed under the totalitarian regimes memorialized on Wednesday. The pact lasted less than two years, collapsing when Hitler attacked the Soviet Union in June 1941. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2iGfZ