Outpourings of grief came in the wake of Thursday's terrorist attack in Barcelona, Spain, in which 13 people were killed and more than 100 injured after a van drove into crowds of people strolling along Las Ramblas, the city's main pedestrian walkway in the heart of the Catalonian capital.World leaders were quick to express their solidarity, such as German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who told the public: "We won't let these murderers deprive us of our way of life."Click here to read about the events as they happenedAfter participating in a crisis meeting with other members of the Catalonian regional government, the region's President Carles Puigdment said, "Catalonia will rise to the occasion to defend peace and freedom. Democracy will break barbarism." The region also declared three days of mourning to honor the victims.After ensuring the public that the government was on top of tending to the injured and securing the area, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy tweeted that terrorists and barbarism will never defeat a united country that loves liberty. "All of Spain is with the victims and families."Spain's royal family also condemned the attacks via Twitter, calling the perpetrators assassins and criminals. "All of Spain is Barcelona. Las Ramblas will once more be for everyone."The Islamic Commission of Spain (UCIDE) also expressed its "emphatic condemnation and repulsion" in relation to the Barcelona attack and reiterated its full commitment to "fight against all forms of terrorism."The commission said it "hopes that those responsible for these attacks can be detained and brought to justice as soon as possible."Sympathy from beyond Spain's bordersGerman Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel and Steffen Seibert, the government spokesperson, expressed sympathy for and solidarity with the victims and their families. French Prime Minister Macron also said his thoughts and the solidarity of his country were with victims of the tragic attack. "We remain united and determined," he said. In a Spanish-language tweet issued later, he reiterated solidarity and said, "We are at your side."Spain's northern neighbor has faced a number of terror attacks in the past years, including the 2016 Bastille Day attack in Nice when a man drove a truck into a crowd of people celebrating on a broad, beachside promenade killing 86 people.Pope Francis is praying for the victims of the Barcelona van attack and expressing his closeness to their families. Vatican spokesman Greg Burke said the pope was "greatly worried" about Thursday's attack and was closely following developments.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said he was "deeply saddened" by the deadly attack."While we cannot ignore the outrage we feel, together we must renew our commitment to protect the freedom found in societies that promote unity, openness and inclusion," he said in a statement. "Spain, we grieve with you and denounce hate and violence in all of its forms."US President Donald Trump also condemned the attack and extended an offer of help to Spain.US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson seconded the offer of helped and warned in a statement that, "Terrorists around the world should know that the United States and our allies are resolved to find you and bring you to justice."United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres condemned the attack in a statement released by the UN."He extends his heartfelt condolences to the families and friends of those killed and to the Government and people of Spain. He wishes a speedy recovery to those injured and hopes that those responsible for this heinous violence will be swiftly brought to justice," the statement said.The British Prime Minister Teresa May added her voice to the international choir of condolences, stating, "The UK stands with Spain against terror." Terrorists also used vehicles to ram pedestrians in two separate attacks that took place on the Westminster and London bridges.Vehicles were also used in terrorist attacks in Stockholm, Sweden in April 2017 and Berlin, Germany in December 2016.Read more: Madrid to Manchester to London: A chronology of terror in EuropeOther messages of condolence came from South and Central American countries including Argentina, Honduras, the Dominican Republic, Mexico and Chile, among others, as well as from the Pope, NATO, and the European Union Commission head Jean-Claude Juncker.Witnesses said the van zigzagged down one of Spanish city's busiest tourist avenues, Las Ramblas, mowing down pedestrians and leaving bodies strewn across the ground. Police confirmed it was a terrorist attack. Several hours later, a second attack south of Barcelona in the seaside resort of Cambrils left six civilians and one police officer injured.The driver of the vehicle left the scene, sparking a massive manhunt. Police arrested two men suspected of having a role in the attack but were clear that the driver of the van had fled on foot. The "Islamic State" terror group said its "soldiers" were responsible for the Barcelona attack.Around three hours after the attack, police announced they had made one arrest and were treating the suspect "as a terrorist." A short while later, the second suspect was detained. One of the suspects is Moroccan and the other is from the Spanish enclave of Melilla in North Africa. Neither was known to have links to terror groups.The so-called Islamic State (IS) claimed responsibility for the attack. "The perpetrators of the Barcelona attack are soldiers of the Islamic State and carried out the operation in response to calls for targeting coalition states," the group's news agency said.Police officers and emergency service workers set up a security perimeter near the site and evacuated the Las Ramblas area directly after the attack. Part of the boulevard was reopened later in the night.The Catalan government said that at least 13 people had died and over 100 injured in the attack. The victims came from at least 18 countries, officials said.Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy announced three days of official mourning for what he called a "jihadist attack." At a news conference in Barcelona, he told reporters: "Today the fight against terrorism is the principal priority for free and open societies like ours. It is a global threat and the response has to be global."Spanish authorities are also investigating the scene of an explosion late Wednesday that killed one person in the city of Alcanar, some 200 kilometers (124 miles) southwest of Barcelona. Police first thought the explosion was an accident but said Thursday they now believe an explosive device that might have been intended for use in Barcelona was being prepared in the building. At least six civilians and one police officer were hurt in the seaside town of Cambrils, south of Barcelona early on Friday, the regional government said. Police shot four attackers dead and a fifth later died of his injuries. Catalonian authorities confirmed early Friday that the attacks in Cambrils and Barcelona were linked. Author: Rob Turner Death on Las RamblasOn Thursday afternoon, a white van entered the broad pedestrian area of Las Ramblas in the Catalan capital and proceeded drive for hundreds of meters, swerving broadly across the pavement and sending individuals flying into the air, before coming to a stop in front of the Liceu Theater. Initial reports that a perpetrator had holed himself up in a Barcelona bar were later dismissed as false.Barcelona's Las Ramblas is a crowded pedestrian street in the heart of the cityThe total number of attackers remained unclear as of Thursday night. However, police confirmed that they had arrested two individuals and had shot one other individual. The latter individual had driven into two police officers at a Barcelona checkpoint after the initial attack on Las Ramblas took place. His body had been found in his vehicle some three kilometers away from the checkpoint where he had been shot.It was not clear whether the checkpoint incident was related to the incident on Las Ramblas.An individual whose passport had been found in the van abandoned on Las Ramblas turned himself into police on Thursday evening, stating his ID had been stolen and claiming no connection to the attack. The so-called Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack. However, the group is known to take responsibility for attacks carried out by distanced followers of the Islamist terror organization in order to enhance the group's image.In the aftermath of the attack, police cordoned off Las Ramblas as well as the adjacent Catalonia Square. Public transport was suspended. Barcelona Mayor Ada Colau called for a moment of silence on Friday to commemorate the victims and demonstrate unity.Spain has been on a heightened terror alert since June 2015.cmb,es/sms (dpa, Reuters, AFP)