The White House ended months of speculation on Friday about the future of the man credited with orchestrating US President Donald Trump's election win after what many consider was the billionaire's disastrous first six months in office.Spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Friday would be Steven Bannon's last day after Trump moved to dismiss his chief strategist."White House Chief of Staff John Kelly and Steve Bannon have mutually agreed today would be Steve's last day," Sanders said in a statement. "We are grateful for his service and wish him the best."Bannon, the former head of the ultra-conservative Breitbart News and accused of being a white supremacist, was reported to have submitted his resignation to the president on August 7 but it was delayed in the wake of the deadly events involving neo-Nazis in Charlottesville.Ready to 'crush the opposition'Within hours of his firing, Bannon confirmed to Bloomberg News that despite the setback he was "going to war for Trump against his opponents." Breitbart confirmed its former boss would return to the provocative right-wing news site as executive chairman."The Trump presidency that we fought for, and won, is over," Bannon told the conservative US magazine Weekly Standard. "We still have a huge movement, and we will make something of this Trump presidency. But that presidency is over."Bannon also said he would use Breitbart to attack opponents of the populist and nationalist agenda he championed, including establishment Republicans."I am definitely going to crush the opposition," Bannon said.Read more: Full profile of Stephen Bannon Chief of staff Kelly acts on his reviewThe arrival at the White House of former US Marine General John Kelly as chief of staff in July appears to have been the trigger for Bannon's departure. Kelly was reported to have been reviewing Bannon's position as part of his strategy to make White House staff communicate better and get things done more effectively. There was also resentment about Bannon's critical remarks directed at national security adviser H.R. McMaster.Kelly spent a week at Trump's golf club in New Jersey earlier in August and summoned aides to ask about their portfolios as he gave them clear responsibilities with the aim of holding them more accountable, according to press reports. He also met with the president's son-in-law Jared Kushner about making changes. Bannon had remained in Washington.Trump signs one of his first Executive Orders in January with Bannon in the roomDistance from TrumpTrump is believed to resent the credit given to Bannon for his election to the presidency and for taking the public spotlight from the president. Bannon is also believed to have leaked information about other White House officials to the press.The former leader of far-right news site Breitbart News had promoted Trump's most controversial measures such as the travel ban on people coming into the US from six mainly Muslim countries and on all refugees, and the decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Agreement.However, Bannon's public utterings on North Korea policy and claims to be able to oust a top State Department Asia envoy close to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in an interview with liberal magazine American Prospect seem to have been his final steps over the edge.At his dramatic impromptu news conference Tuesday when he defended his initial remarks on Charlottesville, again blaming "both sides" for the violence, Trump appeared to distance himself from Bannon: "He's a good person. He actually gets very unfair press in that regard," Trump said. "But we'll see what happens with Mr. Bannon."He played a key role in getting Donald Trump into the White House, but even chief strategist Stephen Bannon was ousted within a year. Bannon was a champion of economic nationalism and Trump's "America First" strategy. After the fallout of white supremacist violence in Charlottesville mid-Aigust, Bannon agreed to leave the administration.The 53-year-old former hedge fund investor nicknamed the "Mooch" was communications director for just 10 days. The colorful New Yorker filled a dream role that had been vacant for months, but was forced out on the same day that straight-shooting former Marine Corps general John Kelly became chief of staff. Trump was displeased with his infamous expletive-laden rant against other senior staff.Walter Shaub, the former director of the Office of Government Ethics, resigned in July after clashing with the White House over Trump's complicated financial holdings. Shaub reportedly called Trump's administration a "laughing stock."Reince Priebus, the former White House chief-of-staff, was forced out just six months into his tenure after a public feud with Anthony Scaramucci, the White House communications director. Priebus was reportedly among those West Wing staffers who opposed the hire of Scaramucci.Sean Spicer, who had a fraught relationship with the president and the press, resigned after telling Trump he vehemently disagreed with the selection of Anthony Scaramucci as White House communications director.Michael Dubke, the former White House communications director, was asked to leave in May over what was perceived as his poor handling of the allegations involving Russian involvement in the US election.US President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey - allegedly over how he handled the Clinton emails investigation. Critics, however, believe the FBI's probe into Trump's campaign ties with Russia was the real reason. Trump's national security adviser, Michael Flynn, resigned in February after revelations that he had discussed US sanctions on Russia with the Russian ambassador to the US before Trump took office and misled Vice President Mike Pence about the conversations.jm,mm/sms (Reuters, AP, AFP)