Just two days before the Netherlands decides its next parliament, the top two candidates for prime minister faced off in a heated televised debate.Current Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and top rival candidate Geert Wilders took part in a 30 minute debate Monday night that touched on a list of issues affecting the Dutch, including its recent row with Turkey, its future role in the EU and immigration.The Netherlands, a founding member of the European Union and its forerunner the European Economic Community (EEC), is a dynamic economy, with stable GDP growth, low unemployment rate and a market-friendly economic model. &nbsp;Still, right-wing populists are expected to perform well in the coming elections. What are the reasons behind this trend?Political and socio-economic problems are growing in complexity in an increasingly globalized world. Many are feeling overwhelmed as a result. Seeing this as a chance, Dutch populists are pushing hard for a breakthrough at the ballot box. Their leader is Geert Wilders, of the Party for Freedom (PVV), who with his simple answers to complicated issues seems set for a dramatic electoral performance.When he took over the reins of his country, Prime Minister Mark Rutte promised solid economic growth and rising prosperity. He has delivered on these fronts: the economic data appear unambiguously positive. But the problem is that the growth and prosperity have not affected many Dutch from lower and middle classes, whose living standards haven't improved over the past five years. &nbsp;Rutte had also pledged not to pour Dutch taxpayer money into bailing out fellow eurozone economies. The PM, however, had to backpedal on this pledge immediately after taking office and grant an aid package for Greece. The move undercut Dutch voters' trust in his government. Decisions like rising the retirement age to 67 and slashing the social benefits have not helped either.The Dutch soon realized that they have actually been paying a hefty price for the boom. They have had to take cuts to their unemployment benefits and reduce spending on healthcare. The fruits of economic expansion haven't reached the ordinary citizen. While the jobless rate has dropped, many Dutch workers are still finding it difficult to earn enough to maintain their living standards.Under these circumstances, it's unsurprising that nationalist sentiment is on the rise even in Dutch society whose liberal values have served as an ideal for many other European nations over the years. In response, the Netherlands has turned against taking in asylum seekers. The prevailing national mood favors Geert Wilders electorally. &nbsp;Wilders' campaign rhetoric focuses on migrants, particularly Muslims. He seldom appears in public without warning that his country faces the "threat of Islamization." Similar to Donald Trump's strategy of blaming Mexicans for every US woe, Wilders points to "Moroccans" for the Netherlands' problems.Islam is most visible in Europe through its places of worship, and many people simply do not want any more of them - another reflex that Wilders exploits. He calls for a nationwide ban on mosques and the Koran, argues against the "Islamic ideology," criticizes the euro and challenges the survival of the EU. He does this while promising the voters better elderly care and a hike in pensions.Wilders has been able to score points amid growing voter dissatisfaction. But parties with radical agendas in the Netherlands have so far failed to turn their good poll ratings into votes. &nbsp;Still, the argument that the country needs to build high barriers seems to be gaining traction; to protect itself from the waters of the North Sea and, for Wilders' followers, against migrants and refugees. &nbsp; Author: Dirk Kaufmann (sri) The election is being closely monitored amid the&nbsp;rise of populist parties in Europe. Wilders, the leader of the populist Party for Freedom (PVV) has called for an end to the "Islamization" of the Netherlands, including a ban on Muslim immigration, closing mosques and banning sales of the Koran, the holy book of Islam. Wilders said the recent remarks from Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the use of riot police to disperse protesters in favor of Erdogan have bolstered his position."You are being taken hostage by Erdogan. Close the Dutch borders," said Wilders during the debate.Rutte rebutted, "that's a totally fake solution. You want 'Nexit,' you want The Netherlands out of Europe. You know what it will cost don't do it."Wilders does want The Netherlands to leave the EU, saying "we'd be boss in our own house again."Rutte dismissed Wilders' desires, saying, "while we are focusing on the causes of the refugee crisis, you're wasting all your attention on your Koran police."Neck and neckRutte, a member of the center-right Freedom and Democracy (VVD) vowed he would never work with Wilders. But the VVD and PVV are polling very close in the lead up to Wednesday's election. The VVD is currently projected to return as the largest party in the 150 seat Dutch parliament with between 23 and 27 representatives, and the PVV in second with between 19 and 23 seats. However, an analyst told French news agency AFP that 60 percent of Dutch voters are still undecided.While the VVD has lost some luster, the PVV led the polls in January. Analysts believe the VVD's fall&nbsp;was due to Wilders media shyness, opting instead to primarily use Twitter to express his opinions.The results in The Netherlands are being closely monitored by nearby France, Germany and Norway, all set to have elections later in 2017. All three nations are seeing a rise in populism in their respective countries.&nbsp;&nbsp;kbd/bw (AFP, dpa, Reuters) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2Z7iC