Germany has launched three days of anti-terror exercises across the country involving both the police and the Bundeswehr. Opposition parties have warned of a "militarization of society." (07.03.2017) A new report details the humiliation and harrassment at a southern German army base. New recruits had to strip down and go through cruel hazing rituals. Germany's defense minister has condemned the actions as repulsive. (15.02.2017) Soldiers and trainers allegedly engaged in widespread abuse at a military training center in Southern Germany. Defense secretary Ursula von der Leyen and military officials have condemned the misconduct. (27.01.2017) The German defense minister has called for more respect and acceptance of LGBT troops in the military. Her comments have come on the heels of reports of hazing and sexual abuse at a German military training center. (31.01.2017) The plan that foreshadows the reforms is contained in a report presented to lawmakers by the Bundeswehr's inspector general.It is in response to widespread misconduct and abuse uncovered earlier this year at an elite&nbsp;special operations center in Pfullendorf, southern Germany.Trainers allegedly forced recruits to perform medically unnecessary and sexually motivated acts, such as the use of rectal thermometers during instruction, as well as bizarre hazing rituals - including forcing fellow soldiers to remain tied to a chair for hours while hosing them down with water.General Volker Wieker said leaders at Pfullendorf had failed to stop the "demeaning and tasteless" abuse."We will not tolerate violations of internal leadership of the German Bundeswehr. Our efforts are intended to prevent future incidents of this type," Wieker said in his report, seen by Reuters.Military officials and Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen were quick to condemn the behavior when it became public, promising an in-depth investigation and serious consequences."What happened in Pfuffendorf is repulsive and despicable," von der Leyen said at the time.General Wieker's report recommends a revamp of systems for reporting problems like violence and discrimination, setting up a database to collate complaints, as well as the need to create a more open "reporting culture."Soldiers at the military training center were allegedly subjected to violent rituals and sexual abuseThe Bundeswehr's problems will come under special investigation by German criminologist Christian Pfeiffer, according to the military report. Pfeiffer will identify potential areas for improvement and develop proposals to educate and train military staff.A defense committee of German lawmakers will discuss Wieker's report on Wednesday.jr/ (Reuters, dpa, AFP)