Outside the European Union institutions on International Women's Day, pro-choice demonstrators braved the chilly drizzle&nbsp;to urge Poland not to roll back abortion rights.&nbsp; Signs carried ominous&nbsp;images of coat hangers.And, coincidentally or not, one Polish man has been inescapable in social media.&nbsp;European Parliamentarian&nbsp;Janusz Korwin-Mikke, who caused a firestorm last week by saying on the parliamentary floor that women "deserve" to be paid less because "they are shorter, they are weaker, they are less intelligent."&nbsp; Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2YcvrKorwin-Mikke's remarks - and a fiery retort by Spanish parliamentarian Iratxe Garcia Perez - went viral.&nbsp; European Parliament President Antonio Tajani&nbsp;opened an investigation into whether the remarks violate EP rules, pledging to impose a "penalty commensurate with the gravity of the offense if found guilty."By insulting all women, he displayed shameless contempt for our most fundamental values," Tajani said. "I will not tolerate such behavior, in particular when it comes from someone who is expected to discharge his duties as a representative of the peoples of Europe with due dignity."Face-to-face with&nbsp;Korwin-MikkeI had to find out for myself what makes Korwin-Mikke tick. His pleasant assistant agreed&nbsp;immediately to an interview and the lawmaker greeted&nbsp;me with a cavalier kiss to the hand before we settled down for our chat. So did he really mean it? I ask. Indeed, Korwin-Mikke lists again what he considers women's inferior qualities, conveyed with a warm smile across his office desk.Even though I knew it was coming, my hackles instinctively went up. I handed over the list of women inventors I'd printed out in response to him suggesting publicly that there were no notable inventions created by women.After the death of her husband Thutmose II, Hatshepsut assumed the regency for her son, who was still an infant. She was one of the most successful pharaohs, reigning longer than any other woman in Ancient Egypt. The two decades of her rule were peaceful and trade flourished. Still, her successors tried to erase all historical records of her reign.In 1425, the Hundred Years' War was raging between England and France when the then 13-year-old daughter of a farmer, Joan, had her first vision of saints inciting her to save France and to bring Charles VII to the French throne. Joan of Arc was captured in 1430, and then tried for heresy and burned at the stake.Catherine II came to power following a coup during which her estranged husband was assassinated and she declared herself the new czar of Russia. She demonstrated her assertiveness by bringing the gigantic Russian Empire under her authority and leading campaigns to conquer Crimean and Polish territory. As the longest-ruling female leader of Russia, she became known as Catherine the Great.The country was in turmoil when Elizabeth I succeeded to the British throne. She managed to pacify the religious war between Protestants and Catholics, leading the British Empire to a golden age during which culture flourished, most famously through playwrights such as Shakespeare. The British naval fleet also crushingly defeated the Spanish Armada, one the country's greatest military victories. In 1903, Emmeline Pankhurst (1858-1928) founded an all-woman suffrage advocacy organization in Great Britain. Their acts of resistance included hunger strikes and arson campaigns. Pankhurst was imprisoned more than once, but she still managed to get the vote extended to women over 30 in 1918. She died in 1928, the year that full suffrage for women was declared in the UK. At a time when women couldn't yet be elected to power, Rosa Luxemburg was at the head of the revolutionary social-democratic movement in Germany. The founder of the Spartacus League and the Communist Party of Germany, she led strikes against the First World War. After the defeat of the Spartacus revolt in 1919, she was murdered by German officers. Marie Curie (1867-1934) conducted pioneering research on radioactivity, leading her to become the first woman to win a Nobel Prize, but also to suffer from symptoms related to the until then unknown effects of exposure to radiation. She won a second Nobel Prize for discovering the elements radium and polonium. She also became the first woman to become a professor at the Sorbonne in Paris.Anne Frank kept a diary from 1942 to 1944. On one of the last photos published in the diary, the 13-year-old smiles happily. Two months after it was taken, her family moved into their hiding place on Prinsengracht in Amsterdam, in July 1942. She lived there until she was deported to Auschwitz, where died in March 1945. Her diary is one of the most important testimonies of the Shoah. The Kenyan Wangari Maathai (1940-2011) became an environmental and women's rights activist in the 1970s. As the founder of the Green Belt Movement, she combated desertification, deforestation, as well as water crises and rural hunger. Although it took time for her to find acceptance in her own country, in 2004, she was awarded the Nobel Prize for Peace for her work.Malala Youfsafzai was only 11 years old when she reported about the terrorist regime of the Taliban in Pakistan for the BBC. When her girls' school was closed, she fought for her right to education. In 2012, she survived an assassination attempt. After her recovery, she wrote her autobiography: "I Am Malala: The Girl Who Stood Up for Education and Was Shot by the Taliban." Author: Sabine Oelze (eg) I started to explain how the "shorter" part didn't really bother me, at 160 cm (5'3")&nbsp;I have&nbsp;no control over that.&nbsp;But Korwin-Mikke cut me off. "But short men earn less than tall men and no one tries to equalize this!" Unfortunately, both those things are true. He was&nbsp;referring back to the parliamentary debate over the gender pay gap during which he delivered his original remarks on women's inferiority.&nbsp; That pay gap, according the European Union statistics agency Eurostat, stood at 16.3% across the EU in 2015.&nbsp;&nbsp;Undeterred, I asked Korwin-Mikke if he believed I'm not as smart as my male counterparts. "That's unimportant," he protested, "I'm talking about the average woman, who is less intelligent than the average man", insisting statistics on male/female IQ back up his theory. (Made note to self: look up those numbers.&nbsp;There is no gap.)He said that while women are "wiser", men dominate the high end of the spectrum of intelligence as well as the low end. "More saints and more criminals," he explained, "more geniuses and more idiots." He regrets that women got the right to vote, explaining that "big hearts make bad policy." &nbsp;When I pointed out that said democracy had provided him a well-paid job, he chuckled and acknowledged he does appreciate the paycheck and the publicity. To hell with hypocrisy.&nbsp;NATO: gender equality "fair" and "smart"NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg holds an all-female roundtable, including DW's Teri Schultz (second from right), for Women's DayAcross town at NATO headquarters, where one may presume it's a male-dominated world, things couldn't be more different. Invited to a special female-only briefing with Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, we brazenly taunted him to out-do the self-branded "feminist" Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. That made him laugh. Stoltenberg has been working for gender equality since his early days in Norwegian politics.Stoltenberg relayed with visible delight that at the February ministerial, a full quarter of defense ministers had been female, the highest percentage ever.&nbsp; Six of the 28 ambassadors to NATO are women; Allied Joint Force Command Naples is headed by US Navy Admiral Michelle Howard.&nbsp; Stoltenberg says these advances have been in just the last couple of years.&nbsp;"It is an inspiration to to do more," he said. "We are in no way satisfied. But it shows that change is possible also within in traditionally very male-dominated organizations like NATO and like the armed forces in many countries." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1JC0eStoltenberg said the "gender perspective" is impressed upon all NATO employees, soldiers and partners, "that they behave in a way which is not discriminating against women."&nbsp; That's important when out on operations as well, he pointed out, where&nbsp;"women are very often the most vulnerable&nbsp;and those who suffer the most in different kinds of conflicts. We see that all over the world."He maintained that improving gender equality is not just fair for women, it's smart for the alliance. "If you want the best people," he said, "you should not just recruit from 50 percent of the population."'All about the hullabaloo'But when it comes to smart, there's one way populists like Janusz Korwin-Mikke are winning.When I confronted him, he&nbsp;didn't renounce his views on women -&nbsp;in fact, he went further, decrying women's suffrage and saying&nbsp;he doesn't let his wife drive - but confided he would not actually prefer to spend his parliamentary speaking time on what is now his signature issue (though he's been in trouble for espousing unpalatable views before).It's all about the "hullabaloo,"&nbsp;he admitted. "If I am saying something wise about taxes, nobody listens. But when I say what I think about women -&nbsp;oh, then everybody comes!" Right, me included.He said it would have cost him a "million euros" to buy this kind of advertising. And in comparison, any fine he might incur for saying these things are&nbsp;dismissed with a wave of his hand.