The rulings were issued by a court in the coastal city of Rosetta, close to&nbsp;where 202 people drowned in September. The vessel capsized in the Mediterranean Sea on September 21 when it was on a journey to Italy.The court sentenced the 56 defendants to jail terms ranging from two to 13 years in prison on charges of manslaughter and fraud, a report from the court said. One of the accused was acquitted.The Europe-bound boat was carrying between 400 and 600 people. Eritrean, Somali, Syrian and Sudanese citizens as well as Egyptian nationals were reported to have been passengers aboard the boat.In October Egypt's parliament passed an anti-migration law stipulating heavy penalties, including fines and prison terms, for those convicted of smuggling or conspiring to smuggle migrants.Egyptian authorities subsequently arrested the&nbsp;owner of the boat and other suspects including crew members and migration mediators. In recent years,&nbsp;Egypt&nbsp;has seen an increase in migrants trying to travel&nbsp;across the Mediterranean to Europe.The International Organization for Migration estimated the number of migrants who died or disappeared while attempting to reach Europe via the Mediterranean in 2016 to be more than 5,000.&nbsp;jbh/gsw (AP, dpa)Please have a look at the following picture gallery from May 26, 2016.Migrants on board the blue fishing vessel rushed to one side of their boat when they spotted a rescue ship. As a result, the boat listed sharply to one side, then capsized, and later began to sink. Such sudden movements of people aboard ships are responsible for numerous tragic incidents in the Mediterranean.Once the boat tipped to a vertical position, people fell into water like stones, Navy personnel reported. The mishap happened some 18 nautical miles off the coast of Libya on Wednesday.Moments later, the fishing vessel capsized completely, prompting migrants to swim away from the boat.Two Italian Navy ships the Bettica and Bergamini first helped drowning migrants with life jackets and rafts. Later, the rescued people were taken to Sicily, where nearly 40,000 migrants have arrived so far this year.At least five migrants drowned in the incident. The Italian Navy managed to rescue 562 people, including 43 children, 10 of whom were babies rescued by the Navy ship Bettica.According to the International Organization for Migration (IOM), at least 1,370 migrants have died so far this year trying to make the perilous sea journey to Europe.European officials are concerned that with the onset of better weather a fresh flood of migrants will try to make the dangerous journey from Libya to Europe. The majority of those using Libya as a springboard to reach Europe are from sub-Saharan Africa. Author: Zahidul Haque