Brett McGurk, the US envoy to the anti-IS coalition said on Sunday that fighters with the Islamist group were&nbsp;"trapped. Just last night, the 9th Iraqi army division ... cut off the last road out of Mosul,""Any of the fighters who are left in Mosul, they're going to die there," McGurk said. "We are very committed to not just defeating them in Mosul, but making sure these guys cannot escape."After "fully liberating" the city's east from IS in January, US-backed Iraqi forces moved onto western Mosul, with a renewed push in March.65,000 people have fled Mosul in the past two weeks alone, according to the International Organisation for Migration"Mosul's liberation is increasingly in sight albeit with increasingly difficult fighting ahead," McGurk said, adding that Iraqi forces were retaking "some of the most difficult ground that we knew would have to be reclaimed. They're doing this in a dense urban environment facing a suicidal enemy that's using civilians as shields."A third of west Mosul takenStaff Major General Maan al-Saadi of the elite Counter-Terrorism Service (CTS) said security forces controlled "more than a third" of west Mosul.Saadi said CTS forces were battling IS inside Mosul al-Jadida and Al-Aghawat on Sunday, and Iraq's Joint Operations Command said they recaptured the latter area later in the day.When forces recaptured Mosul Museum they discovered almost everything had either been looted or destroyed"The enemy has lost its fighting power and its resolve has weakened. It has begun to lose command and control," Saadi said. He said forces had captured 17 out of 40 western districts.Federal police and Rapid Response units said they entered the Bab al-Tob area of the Old City, and expected tough fighting due to the alleyways being too narrow for armored vehicles.600,000 civilians trappedAlong with the militants, up to 600,000 civilians are trapped inside the city and more than 200,000 Mosul residents have been displaced since the start of the campaign in October. More than a quarter of the residents fled in the past two weeks alone.The northern city of Mosul was a key outpost for the so-called "Islamic State" which took control in 2014Capturing Mosul would strike a major blow against IS, which was the largest city it had held since the group's leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi proclaimed a caliphate spanning Iraq and Syria from a mosque in Mosul in the summer of 2014.A Shiite paramilitary spokesman said on Sunday a mass grave had been found containing the remains of "hundreds" of mainly Shiite inmates who were killed in&nbsp;Badush prison in June 2014.aw/jm (Reuters, AFP, AP)You can have a look on the following picture gallery from December 12, 2016.Islamic State (IS) - also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh - is an al Qaeda splinter group with militant Sunni Islamist idealogy. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The group's goal is to create an Islamic state, or "caliphate", across Iraq, Syria and beyond.IS is believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world. It controls territory in Iraq and Syria, and its de facto capital is Raqqa, in Syria. However, the group has lost more than a quarter of its territory since January 2015. There are many groups involved in the fight against IS. The United States is leading air strikes by an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia has conducted air strikes in support of the Syrian government. Regional forces, such as the Kurdish Peshmerga (pictured above), are fighting on the ground.One of the group's main sources of income has been oil and gas - it still controls an estimated one third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led air strikes are deliberately targeting this valuable asset. Other means of income include taxes, ransoms and selling looted antiquities.IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The most deadly to date was a suicide bombing this year in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, in which more than 200 people died and many more were injured. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS can carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group.The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artefacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing", and thousands of women from religious minorites have been enslaved. The group also uses social media as a propaganda and recruitment tool.Around six million Syrians have fled abroad as a result of the ongoing conflict - many to neighboring Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, but also further afield to Europe. More than three million Iraqis have been displaced within the country. Author: Rachel Stewart &nbsp;