Russia has intensified its political and military involvement in Libya as part of a new Middle East strategy, which has several objectives aimed at satisfying its interests. Some of them benefit the region while others play into Russia's hand. At least six Russian soldiers were killed on Friday when gunmen launched an attack on a military facility in Chechnya, the National Guard said in a statement."Six of the attackers were destroyed," the National Guard said. "During the armed combat, six military were killed and there are wounded."The "armed bandits" stormed the base under heavy fog but failed to enter the facility, said the National Guard, a national security agency created by Russian President Vladimir Putin last year for counterterrorism and border security operations.The so-called&nbsp;"Islamic State" (IS) claimed responsibility for the attack, saying "six soldiers of the caliphate" were killed in the attack, according to the "Amaq" news agency, which is known for its links to the militant group.The militants attacked "a military base of the Russian National Guard close to Naurskaya village in northwestern Grozny in Chechnya," said a statement from the militant group. "They clashed with those at the base with light weapons for several hours."A National Guard spokesman said the attack showed that the security agency is "on the forefront of struggle with international terrorism," according to state-owned TASS news agency.Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Moscow has fought two separatist wars in the predominantly Muslim region. However, under the rule of strongman leader Ramzan Kadyrov, such violence has remained relatively uncommon.Russia targetedSince Moscow entered&nbsp;the Syrian conflict in September 2015,&nbsp;"IS" has vowed to launch attacks on Russian targets.In October 2015, an affiliate of the militant group claimed responsibility for downing a passenger plane over the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt, killing all 224 people on board. It has also plotted attacks on Russian targets at home and abroad.Russia announced it would provide air support for Syrian government forces fighting terrorist groups in the country. However, the maneuver was largely seen as a means to bolster Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's grip on power amid a protracted, multi-faceted conflict."IS" rose to notoriety in 2014, when it occupied large swathes of land across Syria and Iraq, culminating in the seizure of the latter's third-largest city, Mosul.An international coalition led by the US has vowed to defeat the group. However, Moscow is not included as a member of the anti-"IS" alliance.Islamic State (IS) - also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh - is an al Qaeda splinter group with militant Sunni Islamist idealogy. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The group's goal is to create an Islamic state, or "caliphate", across Iraq, Syria and beyond.IS is believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world. It controls territory in Iraq and Syria, and its de facto capital is Raqqa, in Syria. However, the group has lost more than a quarter of its territory since January 2015. There are many groups involved in the fight against IS. The United States is leading air strikes by an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia has conducted air strikes in support of the Syrian government. Regional forces, such as the Kurdish Peshmerga (pictured above), are fighting on the ground.One of the group's main sources of income has been oil and gas - it still controls an estimated one third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led air strikes are deliberately targeting this valuable asset. Other means of income include taxes, ransoms and selling looted antiquities.IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The most deadly to date was a suicide bombing this year in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, in which more than 200 people died and many more were injured. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS can carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group.The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artefacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing", and thousands of women from religious minorites have been enslaved. The group also uses social media as a propaganda and recruitment tool.Around six million Syrians have fled abroad as a result of the ongoing conflict - many to neighboring Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, but also further afield to Europe. More than three million Iraqis have been displaced within the country. Author: Rachel Stewart ls/jr (AFP, dpa, Reuters)