The Walled-Off Hotel - a reference to the actual location and an onomatopoeic turn on "Waldorf Hotel" - opens&nbsp;its doors to the public on Saturday. With accommodations ranging from inexpensive soldiers' bunk beds to a presidential suite, it is only five meters (16 feet) from the wall - illegal under international law - separating Israeli-controlled areas from Palestinian territory."Walls are hot right now, but I was into them long before Trump made it cool," said the artist known as Banksy - his true identity is a well-kept secret - in a statement on Friday, when a handful of reporters were allowed to visit&nbsp;his self-described "three-storey cure for fanaticism, with limited car parking."Banksy has previously adorned the Israeli West Bank barrier&nbsp;wall and war ruins in Gaza with his own graffiti. His own creations now also adorn the hotel. They include a wall mural overlooking a bed in one of the guest rooms that depicts a pillow fight between an Israeli soldier and a hooded Palestinian. At another spot, cherubs on life support hover over a piano.As expensive collector's items, Banksy's works sell for six-figure sums. Another of the artist's notable creations is "Dismaland," a grim take-off on an amusement park in Weston-super-Mare, in Somerset, England.A serious pillow fight casts a note of unrest - and gallows humorA gallery, a museum - and nothing left to chanceBanksy had his hotel in Bethlehem built secretly over a period of 14 months on the site of a former pottery workshop. The upper storey-rooms lie directly opposite Israeli watchtowers. In the presidential suite, water for the Jacuzzi flows from an ostensibly bullet-ridden interior tank.At a location accessible through control points to Israelis, international tourists and Palestinians, the reclusive artist hopes to increase awareness of everyday life among Palestinians living on walled-off territory while bolstering the economy of a community whose tourist industry has suffered under increasingly severe travel restrictions. The hotel also houses a gallery where works of Palestinians who might not otherwise get international exposure are on display.Built in century-old colonial style, the hotel is opening on the centennial of the Balfour Declaration, a statement by the British colonial rulers of Palestine that led to the founding of Israel decades later. A likeness of former British Foreign Secretary Lord Arthur Balfour himself sits at a desk near the entrance.In the presidential suiteNo detail of the complex was left to chance; even the books on shelves were chosen carefully, including titles such as "A Room With a View" and "Cage Me a Peacock."The hotel also includes a small museum, curated in consultation with Gavin Grindon, a professor at Essex University, that explains the wall and the history of the region. But even the video presenter concludes on a thought-provoking note: "If you are not completely baffled, then you don't understand," he says.The hotel opens for overnight guests on March 20.&nbsp;