The "Osnabr cker Zeitung" newspaper reported that zoo staff&nbsp;shot dead the bear 'Tips'&nbsp;after she escaped from her&nbsp;enclosure by breaking through fencing.A zoo keeper managed to escort a second bear, a male named 'Taps,'&nbsp;that had remained inside the enclosure, back into his pen.Four thousand visitors were at the zoo making the most of the&nbsp;early, sunny spring weather, reported the newspaper serving the Osnabr ck region in western Germany.Had a tranquilizer been used, its effect would have taken 20 minutes, zoo&nbsp;director Dr. Michael Boes told the newspaper, saying that 'Tips,'&nbsp;after breaking out, had first headed past the zoo's lion enclosure to its flamingo enclosure.&nbsp;There, visitors first noticed the escaped bear and notified staff at the zoo's entrance. Staff decided for the fatal shot to protect the public, Boes said.Particularly in spring, after their winter sleep, bears by nature could act more aggressively than usual.Visitors evacuatedVisitors were evacuated, some after being told by&nbsp;staff to shelter briefly in buildings, including a monkey house, the newspaper reportedly initially.The public was later allowed to return to the grounds, except for the closed-off area where Saturday's drama took place.The zoo's business manager Andreas Busemann told the Deutsche Presse-Agentur news agency, "We reacted immediately with the&nbsp;team; to&nbsp;protect visitors we had to shoot the animal."Second zoo tragedy this weekThe shooting, which took place before police arrived, is the second zoo bear tragedy in Germany this week. A baby polar bear, Fritz, &nbsp;died at Berlin's Tierpark&nbsp;Zoo on Monday.Berlin's Fritz died from a liver infectionThe large cappuccino-colored pair&nbsp;were offspring 10 years ago of a polar bear and female brown bear then kept together at the zoo.Until then, zoo keepers had not believed their parents would inter-breed.&nbsp;Taps (left) and Tips in 2015Climate change made the pair a major attraction, underscored by similar bear finds in the warming arctic wild, for example, in Canada.In winter, 'Tips'&nbsp;and 'Taps' explored their enclosure's frozen pond ice, like polar bears. In summer, they lay dozing, like brown bears.&nbsp;Spring day shooting&nbsp;Police&nbsp;praised Osnabr ck Zoo staff for preventing visitor panic inside the park."Numerous police officers rushed to the zoo ... together with staff at the zoo, the whole area was evacuated," said a police spokeswoman quoted by the Reuters news agency.The "Osnabr cker Zeitung"&nbsp;newspaper quoted visitor Sonja Mattke as saying that she was near the enclosure as events unfolded.Mattke said the zoo made two loudspeaker announcements, one to warn that the bear had broken out, and a second to urge visitors to leave the animal park.Another visitor cited by the newspaper said she did not hear any such announcements.ipj/jlw&nbsp;(dpa, Reuters)Often hybrid animals are purposefully bred. But due also to forces of nature, animals migrate further than before, mating with other species already in the region. This is making for some weird and wonderful crossbreeds.One such animal that is now being found in nature is the grolar bear - the product of, you guessed it, grizzly and polar bears. Melting ice caps have seen polar bears moving south, while the warmer climate means grizzly bears are migrating north. This means that larger areas of their territories are overlapping, giving them more chance to crossbreed.Scientists have called natural crossbreeding between different types of blacktip shark off the coast of Australia "evolution in action." For some hybrid species, like the offspring of common blacktip and Australian blacktip sharks, this means the best of both genepools - such as being able to cope in both tropical as well as cooler waters.But it s not all positive. There is the fear that crossbreeding will lead to the extinction of animals like the polar bear. As the population decreases, the likelihood that polar bears will mate instead with grizzly bears increases as does the probability that polar bears could eventually disappear.Many hybrids suffer from genetic abnormalities, are more prone to disease and are often infertile. One such animal is the liger. A cross between a male lion and a tigress, this produces a creature that Big Cat Rescue calls a result of "irresponsible breeders" looking to make money. This animal does not occur naturally in the wild.Breeding hybrids in zoos is frowned upon. But on farms, It's hard to stop nature. Rarely, there have been cases where sheep and goats have found each other and decided to well, you know. The result is a geep, like this one born in Ireland.Regardless of the positives or negatives of hybrids, some animals will even go out of their way to consummate their interspecies love. Back in 2013, a male zebra jumped over the fence of his enclosure to mate with a female donkey in Florence, Italy. The result was this cute little zonkey called Ippo. Author: Louise Osborne