Peers in the unelected&nbsp;House of Lords voted on Wednesday 358 to 256 for an amendment requiring ministers to protect the rights of more than three million European Union and European Economic Area (EEA) citizens after Britain leaves the 28-member bloc.Under the alteration, the government would be committed to guaranteeing that EU&nbsp;citizens living legally in Britain when the bill is passed "continue&nbsp;to be treated in the same way with regards to their EU-derived&nbsp;rights." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2X8rXNew obstacle for PMThe alteration thereby delays the bill which will empower Prime Minister Theresa May to trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty and&nbsp;begin&nbsp;two years of formal divorce talks between the UK and the EU.The departure was prompted by June's referendum which saw 52 percent of the UK vote&nbsp;in favor of leaving the EU.Prior to Wednesday's vote, however, May said her timetable for triggering Article 50 would not change."It is, indeed, my plan to trigger by the end of March," she told MPs.'Can't do&nbsp;negotiations with people's futures'A spokeswoman for the conservative government's&nbsp;Brexit department said in a&nbsp;statement that it was disappointed by the vote."We are disappointed the Lords have chosen&nbsp;to amend a bill that the Commons passed without&nbsp;amendment," the statement read."Our position on EU nationals has repeatedly been made&nbsp;clear. We want to guarantee the rights of EU citizens who are&nbsp;already living in Britain, and the rights of British nationals&nbsp;living in other member states, as early as we can."The unelected House of Lords voted by a majority of 102 votes in favor of the amendmentOn the contrary, Labour Party&nbsp;Brexit spokeswoman in the Lords, Dianne Hayter,&nbsp;said the amendment was crucial because Europeans living in Britain "need to know now, not in two years'&nbsp;time or even 12 months' time" what their rights are."You can't do negotiations with people's futures. They're too&nbsp;precious to be used as bargaining chips," Hayter said.Return to the CommonsDespite Wednesday's vote, the amendment is not yet binding and must now be returned to the elected lower house, the House of Commons, where there is a good chance it will be rejected. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2VwzvBy leaving the EU, the UK will be withdrawing from the bloc's&nbsp;policy of free movement, which allows citizens of the bloc's 28 member states to live and work in any of the others.As a result, some three&nbsp;million EU nationals in Britain, and 1 million Brits in other&nbsp;member countries still remain uncertain as to whether they will be able to stay in&nbsp;their jobs and homes once Britain reasserts control over EU&nbsp;immigration.May's Tory government has repeatedly claimed&nbsp;that it plans to guarantee the&nbsp;right of EU citizens to remain in Britain, as long as UK&nbsp;nationals&nbsp;living elsewhere in the bloc get the same right.Critics, however, have accused the&nbsp;government of treating people as bargaining chips in the Brexit negotiations.&nbsp;A view of "The Flamingo" amusement arcade in Great Yarmouth. 72% of people in this town on England's east coast voted to leave the European Union during the referendum in June 2016. The area has the third lowest percentage of university educated residents and among the highest number of working class voters.The five most eurosceptic areas are all on Britain's east coast, including Great Yarmouth in Norfolk. One reason might be a rise in immigration, as well as a general decline in the standard of living, which has led to huge frustrations in these areas in recent years.A UKIP sticker in a car's rear window in Great Yarmouth. The seaside resort is situated some 140 miles (200 km) northeast of London.The borough of Hartlepool voted to leave the European Union by 69.6%. There was a similar result in much of the Britain's northeast, including in cities such as Sunderland and Stanley.A row of housing in Stanley, County Durham. The former colliery town is one of the cheapest places to buy a house in the UK. Durham voted to leave the European Union by 57.5%. In the whole northeast, Newcastle was the only borough to vote Remain, though by a narrow margin. This was most likely due to its large student population and dependency on EU funding. The former Joplings Department Store stands derelict. Plans to convert the building into a designer hotel are currently underway. A report by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation in 2016 named Sunderland one of the most declining cities in the UK. It also says that ten of the UK s top 12 struggling cities are based in the north. No city in the south featured in the top 12, or even 24, of the index.A mural of local football hero, Raich Carter, embellishes the wall of the Blue Bell Pub in Hendon, his former area in Sunderland. Wearmouth Colliery, which was a major North Sea coal mine, was the largest mine in Sunderland. Also one of the most important mines in northeast England, it was closed at the end of 1993. The former mine is now the site of Sunderland AFC s Stadium of Light. Author: Nadine Berghausen ksb/jm (AFP, AP, Reuters, dpa)