Party heads from the SPD will look to push a marriage equality bill into law when they meet with their conservative coalition partners on Wednesday.With only&nbsp;five more coalition summits scheduled before the end of the current legislative period in July, the SPD is under time pressure to get the bill through. Parliament will disband in the summer and then parties will begin campaigning ahead of September's general election.From September onwards, the SPD may no longer&nbsp;boast any power, which is why they have put the issue at the top of Wednesday's agenda.Any chance of the bill becoming law could be slim, however. The SPD's senior coalition partners - Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Party (CDU) and its Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU) - will most likely stymie the proposal.Not quite equalRecent legislature has gradually granted more recognition to same-sex couples. Those in civil unions or "registered life partnership," per the verbatim translation, can enjoy many of the same rights and obligations as married heterosexual couples in areas such as inheritance, immigration&nbsp;and tax benefits.However, the CDU/CSU Union, Germany's largest party in the Bundestag since 2005, has also blocked a number of equality bills, including one that would allow civil unions to adopt children.A small circle of detractors"I hope the CDU and CSU will finally jump out of their shadows" (a German expression meaning to swallow one's pride and overcome inhibitions),&nbsp;SPD Parliamentary Chairman Thomas Oppermann told reporters Tuesday. "Marriage should not be a question of gender, but should come down to whether a couple wants to commit and take responsibility for each other."The proposal would have thebacking of most of the Bundestag, the Bundesrat(parliament's upper chamber) and the majority of the population, according Green party lawmaker Volker Beck. "It's only the Union members who are permanently stuck in the past who are denying equal rights for equal love." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1FXxpThe conservative caucus leader Michael Grosse-Br mer said the chance of reaching an agreement before the summer break was slim, while Gerda Hasselfeldt, a high-ranking CSU parliamentarian, maintained her party's position that marriages and same-sex partnerships were "equal' but "not the same."CDU lawmaker Stefan Kaufmann called out the SPD's equality bill an "election maneuver." Despite being in a same-sex partnership himself and admitting that many CDU lawmakers favor&nbsp;marriage equality, Kaufmann said the Union would not yield to every one of the&nbsp;SPD's&nbsp;demands.An electoral&nbsp;themeLast week, SPD election candidate and Merkel rival Martin Schulz pledged to make the equal legal standing of homosexuals a key theme in this year's national election.&nbsp;Polls suggest that the SPD has public opinion on its side. A study published in January by the Federal Anti-Discrimination Agency revealed that 83 percent of respondents in Germany supported same-sex marriage.&nbsp;Fourteen EU countries have legalized same-sex marriage, including France, Spain, Portugal and the Benelux countries.dm/jm&nbsp;(dpa, KNA, AFP)Wahid is attending his first ColognePride since arriving from Syria three months ago. It's his first Pride ever. "I can live how I want in Cologne," Wahid said. "Study, marry," he added, "what you need for a normal life." (German law forbids marriage between people of the same sex, but an alternative system offers many of the same benefits.)This is the first year volunteering at ColognePride for Michaela, who lives in the region and has attended for years. "I think it's really important after Orlando," Michaela said. Her words of wisdom for the weekend: "Love and peace. Love is love. God bless you."Juan Carlos has lived in Cologne for eight months, but he's been to Pride here before. It's his favorite in Europe, even over Barcelona, London and Berlin. "I would like to open minds in South America. I'm a photographer. I upload a lot of pictures. It makes my friends and family in Peru think. We can't change the minds of people, but we can teach them that we can all live together."Trans Family - from left to right this year, Kenneth, Andrea and Christina in the back row and Timon in the front - have pushed their efforts at ColognePride for 15 years. As the event has grown, so has visibility of transpeople, but equality remains a dream. "Everything changes too slowly," Christina said. True change, they said, will only come when transpeople and their allies enter government.Max (left) and Pierre have been coming to ColognePride for a decade. It's a favorite, and they go to celebrations on both sides of the Atlantic. With Max volunteering for security on Sunday, the topic of the Orlando killings came up. "People at home discouraged us" from going to Cologne, Pierre said. But, Max said, they decided that "in light of Orlando, it's important to be loud and proud."It's the first ColognePride for the young family, though they have been to similar events in Cologne and Berlin. Daniela (right) said she and Sandra were looking forward to having "our kids see that we're not the only ones." Their big wish, though, for themselves, baby Mila and Luka in the stroller is "marriage for all." Daniela says it will happen "sometime, but not in the next while, I believe." Author: Milan Gagnon