The prosecutor's office on Tuesday placed French conservative presidential candidate Francois Fillon under formal investigation over allegations that he diverted public funds."He was charged this morning," Fillon's lawyer Antonin Levy told reporters.&nbsp;"The hearing was brought forward so that it could take place in a calm manner."In late January, in an interview aired on national television, Fillon&nbsp;declared that "there is only one thing that would stop me being a candidate: if my honor was called into question, if I was charged."Under French law, preliminary charges entail investigating magistrates having strong reason to suspect wrongdoing. However, the probe will remain ongoing before magistrates decide&nbsp;whether to send the case to trial. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2YZH1French weekly "Le Canard Enchaine," which broke the story earlier this year, first announced the investigation on its Twitter page.While Fillon is by no means the only French lawmaker to have faced legal problems, never before has a presidential candidate from a major party reached such a critical step in a criminal&nbsp;investigation. Despite attempts by rebels from within his party to dislodge him, Fillon has vowed to keep campaigning ahead of the first round of the election on April 23.The deadline for parties&nbsp;to submit their candidate pick is on Friday.Keeping it in the familyThe former French Prime Minister has been accused of hiring his wife and two children in publicly-funded jobs that they allegedly never performed.&nbsp;Fillon's wife Penelope was paid some 830,000 euros ($900,000) over 15 years while employed as his and his replacement's assistant in Parliament. Authorities have been investigating whether Penelope Fillon provided services for the salary she received."Le Parisien" newspaper also reported fresh allegations on Tuesday that two of his children turned over a large part of their parliamentary salaries back to their parents. A lawyer for Fillon's daughter Marie said the money was paid back to reimburse her parents for her wedding. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2YgCV'A manhunt'Fillon also stands accused of misappropriating funds, receiving the funds and not declaring assets fully.Fillon has repeatedly pleaded his innocence to the charges, insisting that he has been the victim of a "manhunt" and an attempted "political assassination." He has denied all wrongdoing, saying that his wife worked from his home in the Sarthe region of northern France during his 40-year political career.Fillon was the clear frontrunner at the beginning of the year but polls now indicate he would be eliminated in the first round.&nbsp;Independent centrist candidate Emmanuel Macron and far-right leader Marine Le Pen have both benefitted from Fillon's legal disarray. According to opinion polls, both are expected to reach the second round, with Macron appearing as the new front-runner.dm/jm&nbsp;(AFP, Reuters)Many expected Francois Fillon to be a shoo-in for the presidency. The former French prime minister easily won the conservative primary with 67 percent of the vote. But then Penelopegate hit. Weekly newspaper Canard Enchaine reported that Fillon's wife Penelope and two of his children had received close to one million euros in salaries from Fillon, paid by the state. Fillon's popularity tumbled.It is not illegal in France to hire family members as parliamentary assistants - provided they have real jobs. Fillon's wife was paid 830,000 euros ($900,000) as a parliamentary assistant for 15 years, working (or - as some have suggested - "working") for Fillon and his replacement in parliament. Police are currently investigating whether Penelope provided services for the salary she received. Reporters also revealed that Fillon paid his two oldest children 84,000 euros for working as assistants between 2005 and 2007. Fillon argued that he had hired Marie and Charles Fillon for their legal expertise - though the two were still in law school when they had jobs with their father.Penelope was also employed at an art magazine from May 2012 to December 2013, where she was paid roughly 5,000 euros a month. The owner of the magazine had previously been recommended for France's highest honor, the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor, by then-prime minister Francois Fillon. Fillon has said that these two facts were unrelated. Fillon has repeatedly denied charges that he used "fake jobs" to enrich his family. He has said that he employed his wife and children because he trusted them and accused the media of running a smear campaign against him. Nevertheless, Penelopegate has severely damaged the campaign of the 63-year old, who has sold himself to French voters as an honest family man keen on cutting public spending. The accusations against Fillon are hardly the first of their kind in France. Ex-President Jacques Chirac was found guilty in 2011 of employing party members in "fake jobs" as mayor of Paris. Former president Nicolas Sarkozy is being investigated for illegal campaign financing, and presidential candidate Marine Le Pen is suspected of paying officials in her far-right party with EU funds. Author: Mara Bierbach