Two men have been arrested in connection with a terror threat in the western city of Essen. Police sealed off and closed a shopping center after receiving indications of a planned attack from security sources. (12.03.2017) Germany has launched three days of anti-terror exercises across the country involving both the police and the Bundeswehr. Opposition parties have warned of a "militarization of society." (07.03.2017) Three months after the truck attack on a Berlin Christmas market, domestic intelligence officials say they can t rule out further attacks. They add that there are other reasons to be concerned about security in Germany. (08.03.2017) German police said&nbsp;Sunday that they had detained a male suspect in his 20s after an attack threat against&nbsp;a night club in Offenburg appeared online.Police launched a major operation in the southwestern German town on Saturday night, upping security in the town center, the main train station and on the border with France. Security was particularly tight around Offenburg's night clubs and one was cleared out by authorities."A dance club in the industrial area was evacuated in the early morning hours for security reasons," police said in a statement. They did not name the club that had been threatened.Police questioned two male suspects aged between 20 and 25 years old, the statement said. Police searched&nbsp;one of the suspect's apartment but did not find any weapons that could have been related to the attack threat.One of the men was later released after police ascertained that he was not connected with the online threat. Police have not yet released further details about the content of the threat or&nbsp;a possible motive.Security forces in Essen shut down a shopping mall on Saturday due to a potential terror threatGermany on high alertThe police operation in Offenburg directly follows another security operation in the German city of Essen. On Saturday, police closed a shopping mall after security services warned of a possible terror attack.Authorities citied by the German newspaper "Bild" described the threat as a potential multiple suicide bombing.Two men were arrested in connection with the Essen threat, but they were not being treated as would-be perpetrators.Germany remains on edge following a series of attacks last year after a rejected asylum seeker from Tunisia drove a semi-truck into a crowded Berlin Christmas market in December, killing 12 people.rs/jlw (AFP, dpa, Reuters) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2VDNY