The Paris prosecution office on Tuesday launched an investigation into allegations of favoritism linked to a trip French presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron made last year.The allegations date back to January 2016, when the then-French economy ministry was the main speaker at a high-profile event organized by his ministry as the CES technology fair in Las Vegas.French presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron has set out his election manifesto, promising to tackle high unemployment. He also vowed to deal with the terror threat and accelerate the country's weak economic recovery. (02.03.2017) French presidential candidate Francois Fillon has been put under formal investigation over the misuse of public funds. In January Fillon said he would step down if he was charged. (14.03.2017) Populist Marine Le Pen is favourite to win the first round the French presidential election, but who she may meet in the second round is still unclear. DW has rounded up the best content to keep you informed. (24.02.2017) However, according to a judicial source, it appears the unit within the French economy ministry that organized the event outsourced support without a issuing a public tender, fuelling allegations of favoritism.According to French newspaper "Le Canarde Enchaine," which broke the story, French public relations giant Havas was chosen to organize the event after the economy ministry reportedly sought no other bids from other companies. The report also revealed the event cost a total of nearly 400,000 euros ($425,000), some 100,000 of which was spent on hotel expenses alone.Several officials within the Macron's ministry reportedly formerly worked at Havas.Macron in the clear?An aide to presidential candidate told the Agence France-Presse news agency that the investigation would focus on the promotional unit within the ministry tasked with organizing the event, Business France, as well as Havas."It's in no way a story about Macron," the aide said. Macron is not directly mentioned in the judiciary's examination and he has denied any wrongdoing. Addressing the allegations last week, the 39-year-old independent candidate said: "I had no knowledge of it at the time, but I cannot imagine that my ministry would organize an event without a tender." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2YZH1Business France appeared to recognize its responsibility in the legally dubious organization of the event. In a statement, the governmental promotions team said: "Burdened by delays, it appears that the procedure for choosing a provider capable of heading the organization of the US event, as well as the relevant communications, ( ) was affected by irregularities."News of the allegations came the same day that the prosecution office announced that it was placing Francois Fillon, Macron's election rival, under formal investigation&nbsp;over the fake jobs scandal.&nbsp;Macron is the current frontrunner in this year's French presidential election and favorite to win the keys to the&nbsp;Elysee Palace.&nbsp;dm/jm&nbsp;(AFP, dpa) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2XHal