Another day, another defeat - and Roger Schmidt is feeling the pressure."If you're not up to scratch on match days and in training, you can't play for Bayer Leverkusen," he declared this week ahead of his side's trip to Borussia Dortmund, demanding "dependable players who are prepared to give 100 percent&nbsp;for the team."The unreliable players, according to Schmidt, "need to pull their fingers out." Clearly, he believes it is the players&nbsp;who are responsible for a season which has so far fallen significantly short of expectations.&nbsp;DW's Matt Ford says Roger Schmidt must take the blame for Leverkusen's failuresLeverkusen targeted this season as the year in which they finally closed the gap on Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund. But the Werkself went into the fixture against Dortmund on the back of two straight home defeats - 4-2 against Atletico Madrid which sees them all but eliminated from the Champions League and 2-0 against Mainz. That marked&nbsp;their tenth league defeat of the season, as many as they suffered in the whole of the previous campaign. &nbsp;ExcusesNow it's eleven, after Schmidt's side crashed to a 6-2 defeat at the Signal Iduna Park. "That was a brutal result," he lamented. "We didn't play badly at all for long periods but Dortmund have so much quality up front.""Look at the attackers they have," he continued. "They could play for any of Europe's top sides - Bayern Munich, Real Madrid, Barcelona. It's a question of quality."Naive Leverkusen were punished in the Champions LeagueDortmund do boast a formidable attack. So do Atletico Madrid. Mainz, with respect, less so. But this should hardly come as a surprise to Schmidt. It's his job to prepare to deal with such quality, to identify and put into practice a suitable game plan, a job he is too often failing to do.Against Atletico in the Champions League, Leverkusen piled forward admirably but recklessly and were easily picked off on the counter-attack by Kevin Gameiro, Antoine Griezmann and Fernando Torres.In Dortmund, they committed the same fatal errors and were punished accordingly - usually by the unstoppable Ousmane Dembele.&nbsp;Schmidt knows only one way to play - all out attack. It's exciting when it works, and Leverkusen do have the individual quality to make it work, but pragmatism, flexibility and rationale are&nbsp;also required. That comes from the manager.Vulnerable from set piecesPierre-Emerick Aubameyang prodded&nbsp;home two almost identical goals after finding himself in yards of space at the back post from set pieces, just as Mainz scored twice from dead balls last week. Leverkusen have now conceded 16 goals from set plays this season - more than any other team in the Bundesliga.When world-class strikers score world-class goals, you can hold your hands up and accept that there's little you could do. But Leverkusen are conceding goals which could be easily avoided with some diligent work on the training ground.Then there's the question of the starting eleven. Against Dortmund, Javier Hernandez (ten goals this season), Kerim Bellarabi (four assists) and Julian Brandt (six assists) were conspicuous by their absence. But there was a place for&nbsp;17-year-old Kai Havertz - a huge talent, no doubt, but a strange decision all the same. Indeed, Schmidt replaced the struggling Charles Aranguiz with Bellarabi before half-time - a tacit admission of his error?The right direction?&nbsp;Rudi V ller (left) has stuck by Roger Schmidt - for now"6-2 sounds really bad but my team actually put in a good performance," he insisted after Leverkusen's first defeat by a four-goal margin since April 2011 (5-1 vs Bayern Munich). "I can identify with this sort of performance, it was a step in the right direction."The songs directed at Schmidt from the away section in the Westfalenstadion suggest that the fans don't see it quite the same way. Disillusion is already rife among the support with the ultras refusing to attend home games after the club banned a display and CEO Michael Schade the target of "Schade out" chants after the defeat against Mainz.On the pitch, sporting director Rudi V ller described Bayer Leverkusen as a "mixed bag" but, in fact, Roger Schmidt's side is becoming more predictable by the week.&nbsp;Leverkusen are one-dimensional, reliant on moments of individual quality and vulnerable from set-pieces - all areas which can be corrected by the manager who constructs a functioning team on the training ground.It's time for Schmidt to pull his finger out before his superiors pull the plug.