The UN's World Health Organization (WHO) said on Saturday that 12 people had been exposed to&nbsp;chemical agents in the eastern part of the northern Iraqi city of Mosul.All have been received since March 1 for treatment in Erbil, the capital of Iraq's Kurdish region, east of Mosul.Tens of thousands of people have fled western Mosul since Iraqi forces launched an operation to retake it from the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) jihadi&nbsp;group on February 19, pushing into the area from the south. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2YPTvHussein Qader, the deputy director of the hospital in Erbil, said all patients are in stable condition and will be discharged in the coming days.Four of them are showing "severe signs associated with exposure to a blister agent."The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said on Friday that five children and two women were receiving treatment for exposure to chemical agents.The alleged attack occurred this week in eastern Mosul, an area declared fully liberated by Iraqi forces in January."This is horrible," Lise Grande, the UN humanitarian coordinator in Iraq, said in a statement. "There is never justification - none whatsoever - for the use of chemical weapons."IS has used chemical weapons in Iraq and Syria at least 52 times according to a report published in late 2016 by IHS conflict monitor, a London-based research and intelligence gathering group.The report said that at least 19 of the 52 attacks took place in and around Mosul.UN criticizedMeanwhile, an Iraqi minister has criticized UN efforts to aid civilians fleeing fighting in western Mosul."Unfortunately, there is a clear shortfall in the work of these (UN) organizations," Jassem Mohammed al-Jaff, minister for displacement and migration, said."The UN talks a lot but the efforts being made are little, despite the huge amount of money in their possession," he added.IS overran large areas north and west of Baghdad in 2014, but Iraqi forces backed by US-led airstrikes and other assistance have since regained most of the territory they lost to the jihadis.Iraqi troops and their allies gained control of the portion of Mosul on the eastern side of the Tigris River in January. Now they aim to free western Mosul, where around 2,000 jihadis are said to have entrenched themselves.Iraqi army soldiers took over Mosul's airport, providing them a gateway to the western part of the city. Holding the position will be crucial to Iraqi efforts to retake the rest of the Mosul.The army is not only advancing against IS with rockets, mortars and howitzers, they are also deploying drones, jets and helicopters to the frontlines. US soldiers are also participating in the battle. A few thousands IS fighters are fighting against some 10,000 Iraqi troops. But, skilled in guerrilla tactics, the militants familiar with what's left of the city. Iraqi troops above inspect an IS tunnel used by fighters who have been ready to conduct suicide attacks against government soldiers.The situation has grown increasingly dramatic for the citizens of western Mosul. Around 750,000 people are still trapped there. They lack the most basic necessities as water, food and fuel are scarce commodities.This boy had to be evacuated from his village near Mosul. He is on his way to a relatively safe camp in the southern part of the city. UN aid organizations expect around 250,000 more people to flee the city.jbh/sms (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)