Negotiators from the Philippine government and communist rebels on Sunday agreed to resume peace talks, a month after President Rodrigo Duterte called off negotiations.The government and communist-led National Democratic Front also agreed to reinstate a ceasefire before the next round of peace talks in April, a joint statement said."The parties shall continue the formal peace talks and reiterate their reaffirmation of all bilateral agreements and statements" made before peace talks collapsed last month, the statement said.The agreement was reached after negotiators met on Friday and Saturday in Utrecht, Netherlands, where the communist leadership in exile is based.Duterte opened peace talks with the rebels shortly after taking office last June.To pave the way for negotiations, the Philippine government released imprisoned rebel leaders and negotiators, meeting a key demand of the communists.However, Duterte called off talks in February after a series of rebel attacks killed soldiers.The joint statement also said a rebel negotiator would be released from prison.The Norwegian government mediated peace talks will resume in April and June, both sides said.The communist insurgency began in the late 1960s and is one of the world's longest running conflicts. Some 30,000 people have been killed, according to the military.In 2014, Russia annexed Crimea and started providing support to rebels in eastern Ukraine. The conflict in Ukraine quickly gained an international dimension and triggered a renewed standoff between Russia and the West that has extended as far afield as Syria.North and South Korea are technically still at war, having signed no peace treaty to end the Korean War. The demilitarized zone, or DMZ, is a 2-kilometer (1.2-mile) strip separating the countries. The border is one of the tensest and most heavily militarized in the world.South Ossetia and Abkhazia are post-Soviet breakaway republics outside the sovereign control of Georgia. They are backed and recognized by Russia and only a handful of other states. The conflict turned hot during 2008 Russian-Georgian War, which effectively kicked Tbilisi's forces out of the republics.A 1974 invasion by Turkey in response to a coup attempt to join the island with Greece split the island between the self-declared Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and the internationally recognized Republic of Cyprus in the ethnically Greek south. The two communities' leaders are engaged in complicated reunification talks. Both sides have expressed hope for a settlement this year.Azerbaijan and Armenia went to war over Nagorno-Karabakh until the two sides reached a truce in 1994. Since then, the territory - ethnically Armenian but formally Azerbaijani - has been under the control of local Armenian forces and the Armenian military. The conflict has had periodic violent flare-ups, most recently with a bout of fierce fighting in April.Morocco annexed Western Sahara after colonial power Spain withdrew in 1975, setting off a conflict with the Polisario Front, which demands self-determination. In 1991, a UN-brokered ceasefire put a halt to fighting. However, a promised referendum on self-determination has failed to materialize, threatening to upend a shaky peace.Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan, which have fought two wars over the predominantly Muslim region. India accuses Pakistan of arming rebels fighting for independence or union with Pakistan. The emotionally charged issue is especially dangerous given that both countries have nuclear weapons.Trans-Dniester is a pro-Russia breakaway region of Moldova. The sliver of territory bordering on Ukraine split from Moldova, triggering a 1992 war. Russia maintains peacekeepers in the region. Some analysts say Trans-Dniester is a potential hot spot used by Russia to keep Moldova from becoming closer to the West. Author: Chase Winter cw/rc&nbsp;(AFP, dpa)&nbsp;&nbsp;