Conservative candidate Francois Fillon's campaign took a major hit&nbsp;Friday, following the announced resignation of both the campaign spokesman and director on Friday.Campaign director Patrick Stefanini announced he was bowing out of the campaign, and Fillon's campaign staff accepted it according to a statement from Fillon's campaign. Stefanini is planning to stay until the end of a rally on Sunday, after which he will be replaced by Vincent Chriqui.&nbsp;Francois Fillon campaign director Patrick Stefanini (at podium) announced his resignation Friday The weekly newspaper Journal de Dimanche published Stefanini's resignation letter, which he said "little or nothing" remained of his work constructing a "broad alliance of the right and center" behind Fillon.Thierry Solere, Fillon campaign spokesman, announced on Twitter he would step down from his position as Francois Fillon's campaign spokesman. His resignation adds to a growing list of campaign associates who have parted ways with the beleaguered Fillon's political team.Solere failed to disclose specific reason for his departure.His decision to step down comes just two days after former agricultural minister and Fillon campaign manager Bruno Le Maire also resigned from the conservative candidate's team.As his reason for quitting, Le Maire cited Fillon's somewhat unexpected announcement that he would&nbsp;stay in the presidential race despite being placed under formal investigation.One day later, police raided Fillon's Paris home in relation to the investigation.&nbsp;Many expected Francois Fillon to be a shoo-in for the presidency. The former French prime minister easily won the conservative primary with 67 percent of the vote. But then Penelopegate hit. Weekly newspaper Canard Enchaine reported that Fillon's wife Penelope and two of his children had received close to one million euros in salaries from Fillon, paid by the state. Fillon's popularity tumbled.It is not illegal in France to hire family members as parliamentary assistants - provided they have real jobs. Fillon's wife was paid 830,000 euros ($900,000) as a parliamentary assistant for 15 years, working (or - as some have suggested - "working") for Fillon and his replacement in parliament. Police are currently investigating whether Penelope provided services for the salary she received. Reporters also revealed that Fillon paid his two oldest children 84.000 euros for working as assistants between 2005 and 2007. Fillon argued that he had hired Marie and Charles Fillon for their legal expertise though the two were still in law school when they had jobs with their father. Penelope was also employed at an art magazine from May 2012 to December 2013, where she was paid roughly 5,000 euros a month. The owner of the magazine had previously been recommended for France's highest honor, the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor, by then-prime minister Francois Fillon. Fillon has said that these two facts were unrelated. Fillon has repeatedly denied charges that he used "fake jobs" to enrich his family. He has said that he employed his wife and children because he trusted them and accused the media of running a smear campaign against him. Nevertheless, Penelopegate has severely damaged the campaign of the 62-year old, who has sold himself to French voters as an honest family man keen on cutting public spending. The accusations against Fillon are hardly the first of their kind in France. Ex-President Jacques Chirac was found guilty in 2011 of employing party members in "fake jobs" as mayor of Paris. Former president Nicolas Sarkozy is being investigated for illegal campaign financing, and presidential candidate Marine Le Pen is suspected of paying officials in her far-right party with EU funds. Author: Mara Bierbach Centrist party abandons RepublicansOther members who have quit Fillon's campaign include two deputy directors and the team's treasurer.In an interview on Friday, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, the leader of the centrist UDI party, also confirmed that the party had withdrawn its support from the scandal-hit Fillon - urging the Republicans to settle on an alternative.&nbsp;"We ask the Republicans to change candidate and if they do not, we will not be able to continue our alliance," Jean-Christophe Lagarde told French daily Ouest France.PenelopegateThe 62-year-old's bid for the French presidency has been rocked by&nbsp;accusations&nbsp;that his wife and children received payment for parliamentary work they did not carry out.Despite the scandal and internal party dissent, an indignant Fillon announced on Wednesday he would continue to fight for his party's official. He meets investigative magistrates on March 15, just two days before the deadline for parties to formally confirm their candidates. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2YZH1Should Fillon have the Juppe jitters? Ready to benefit from Fillon's financial fiasco is fellow conservative politician and current Bordeaux mayor Alain Juppe. Though Fillon defeated the 71-year-old veteran politician in the November 2016 party primaries, Juppe has signaled his willingness to replace Fillon as the conservative party's presidential candidate, should Fillon&nbsp;eventually pull out of the race.Juppe "will not refuse if all the conditions are met -&nbsp;Francois Fillon has to take the decision to pull out himself and the right-wing and center camps ... have to be united behind him,"&nbsp;an anonymous member of Juppe's political team told AFP.Replacing Fillon could provide a last-minute boost to the conservative party before first-round voting begins on April 23.Juppe stands ready to take Fillon's placeA race still in fluxAn Odoxa poll released Friday showed that Fillon would be eliminated were the first-round vote to be held today. Only 19 percent of respondents would cast their ballot for the embattled politician, landing him in third&nbsp;place behind centrist Emmanuel Macron with 27 percent and the Front National's Marine Le Pen with 25.5 percent. The top two finishers in the first round proceed to the decisive runoff in May.A different poll published by&nbsp;Opinionway on Friday also saw Fillon earn a&nbsp;distant third-place finish behind Macron and Le Pen. But their results revealed Le Pen - and not Macron - would win the first round of voting, though Macron would defeat the far-right nationalist in May's final runoff.&nbsp;However, a Juppe candidacy could&nbsp;reshape the race's outcome. According to Odoxa, he&nbsp;would earn 26.5 percent of respondent's initial vote and thereby top both Macron and Le Pen in April.ksb, cmb, kbd/msh (AFP, dpa, Reuters)