Saut ed with garlic and lemon juice or breaded and fried in cracker crumbs - frogs' legs are a delicacy in many countries, most famously France and Belgium.And it is big business. The&nbsp;European Union imported 4,234 tons of frogs' legs in 2015 - the limbs of somewhere between 84 and 200 million frogs.Most&nbsp;are caught from in the wild,&nbsp;in Asia. Their legs are then severed, skinned, deep-frozen and exported to Europe. Live frogs are flown to the US to cater to the Asian diaspora.After India and Bangladesh banned the export of frogs in 1987 and 1989, respectively, Indonesia became the main exporter. Today it's&nbsp;the source of more than two thirds of all frogs' legs in supermarkets worldwide.Conservationists have been warning for years that the trade can't be sustainable. And there's more: Many frogs' legs are labelled incorrectly, a recent study suggests.Which species on the menu?Annemarie Ohler and Violaine Nicolas, of Sorbonne University in Paris, bought 209 specimens of deep-frozen frogs' legs in French supermarkets between 2012 and 2013, and identified the species through DNA analysis.All were sold as&nbsp;the Indonesian species Rana macrodon, also called Limnonectes macrodon or the Javan giant frog.While European frogs are given protection, Indonesian frogs end up on European menusBut tests&nbsp;showed that 206 of the 209 specimens belonged to another species -&nbsp;Fejervarya cancrivora, the Asian brackish frog, as the pair report in the European Journal of Taxonomy.Ohler suspects the mis-labeling was no accident, she tells DW. "It is quite easy to distinguish the species when they are still alive."It's not clear why one species would be passed off as another. One theory has to do with fears of&nbsp;contamination. The Javan giant frog lives in rivers and forests whereas the Asian brackish frog thrives in rice fields."A colleague from Indonesia told me that due to environmental pollution many frogs from rice fields are full of pesticides," Ohler says.Dying outBut the study points to another worrying trend. Ohler and Nicolas say the absence of the Javan giant frog from supermarket samples "might be an indication of its rarity in the field and the fact that its natural populations are declining rapidly.""I don't think there are many of them left," Ohler says.According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the species is now considered&nbsp; "uncommon" and is listed as "vulnerable".It is threatened by loss of&nbsp;habitat and water pollution. But "being highly exploited as a food source" could also play a role in its decline, according to the IUCN.The Asian brackish frog, though, is still listed as of "least concern" and its is population growing.Farming frogs is difficult. They prefer live food. Trading frogs to extinctionIt might be good news that rather than an endangered species lurking in France's deep-freezers, a more common one has taken its place.But conservations fear that if the trade continues, the&nbsp;Asian brackish frog won't stay plentiful for long.&nbsp;"If the market continues to be this uncontrolled, it is just a matter of time before the next species is going to disappear," Sandra Altherr of the Pro Wildlife&nbsp;non-profit told DW.Back in 2011, Altherr authored a report titled&nbsp;"Canap s to extinction"&nbsp;on the ecological impact of the&nbsp;unsustainable international trade in frogs' legs."Indonesia's frog&nbsp;exports are a conservation disaster," Altherr says. "This study [from France] shows that the trade is not controlled at all."She hopes the recent study will spark debate and finally "convince the EU to limit its frog&nbsp;imports."Ohler meanwhile, says it's sad nobody seems to care about "millions of frogs simply disappearing.""Enormous amounts of frogs are taken from the wild," she says. "This can only lead to a collapse."Protecting European frogs, eating Indonesian frogsOhler and Nicolas say the mis-labelling of frogs in French supermarkets underlines that something must be done."These results underline the need for large-scale studies to assess the status of wild populations," they write.So far, there have been virtually no studies&nbsp;investigating the impact&nbsp;of frog harvesting on natural populations in Indonesia, Altherr says."We can't take out without limits if we don't even know how much is there," she says.Safe for now: The Indian Bullfrog is protected under CITESIn France, where the consumption of frogs is a tradition, private individuals used to collect local frogs&nbsp;at certain times of the year. Only later, when deep-freezers were widely available, did collecting and trading frogs' legs go commercial.French frogs&nbsp;were forced to the brink of extinction and have been protected since 1979.&nbsp;In European countries,&nbsp;catching&nbsp;frogs from ponds for personal use is permitted at certain times of year but commercial hunting and trade are prohibited under&nbsp;EU law."It seems odd to me that we protect native frogs in the EU but barbecue Indonesian frogs without concern," Altherr says.Natural pest controlMany frog species worldwide are already threatened with extinction due to habitat loss, environmental pollution and an infectious disease caused by a fungus.And loosing frogs could have much wider ecosystem impacts, with insects becoming more abundant and causing farmers to use more pesticides.According to Pro Wildlife, that's&nbsp;why India and Bangladesh banned the export of their frog species - the green pond frog and the Indian bullfrog. Both were highly sought after for the international market, leading to unsustainable exploitation."Both countries got severe problems with pests like insects, slugs and so on," says Altherr. "So they put the brakes on."In 1985, both species were listed in Appendix II of CITES, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna.Ohler hopes Indonesia too, will learn to appreciate its frogs before they are all gone.The critically endangered red-eyed stream frog, or Duellmanohyla uranochroa, has become a symbol for the global decline of amphibians. The nocturnal frog was once common in Costa Rica and Panama, but has suffered severe population declines due to habitat loss and fungal disease. An estimated 165 amphibian species have died out in recent years.The chytrid fungus is a major killer of amphibians worldwide. Chytridiomycosis disease destroys amphibians' delicate skin, which they also use to breathe through. It is believed to have come from the African clawed frog, which was used for human pregnancy testing throughout the world in the 1950s. The fungus spread and devastated many species, including these harlequin toads of the genus Atelopus.Gliding frogs, like this one in Panama, are known for their spectacular leaps through rainforest canopies. But their territory is being threatened by logging - habitat destruction, such as deforestation and draining wetlands, is endangering the world s amphibians. Climate change and the overuse of pesticides are other factors that scientists agree are making it harder for many species to survive.Amphibians are thought to be good indicators of how healthy the planet is. Because they absorb substances from the water and air during their lifecycle, they are more sensitive to the environment than most other animals. They have thus been described as "canaries in the coalmine," meaning they can provide early warnings of a deteriorating environment.Frogs, toads, salamanders, newts and caecilians - they all play a vital role in the food web. They eat insects and are in turn eaten by snakes, birds, and even humans. In medical research, some amphibians have been found to produce chemicals with the potential to cure human diseases. The frog pictured here secretes poison that native peoples have long applied to darts.While many amphibian populations are endangered or extinct, new species are still being discovered. Last year, this bright "yellow dyer" frog, which colors your fingers yellow when you touch it, was discovered in the mountains of western Panama by Germany-based biologist Andreas Hertz. Its scientific name is Diasporus citrinobapheus.Scientists specializing in amphibians and reptiles are called herpetologists - PhD student Andreas Hertz is one herpetologist on a mission to document rare amphibians in Latin America. Since 2007, a global project called "Amphibian Ark" has been underway, in which species are collected from the wild and put in quarantine before the deadly chytrid fungus can reach them.The Hula painted frog was thought to be extinct for the past six decades - until one was found hopping across a road in northern Israel in 2011. Since then, more have been discovered, and there are believed to be up to 200 living in the Hula Valley. As an organism that has kept the same form over millions of years, it's considered a "living fossil."A victim of the pet trade and tourism, the strawberry poison dart frog is still classified as a species of "least concern" on the IUCN Red List. This tiny frog measures about 2.5 centimeters and is found in Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama and Puerto Rico. The venom from these frogs is less harmful to humans than that of other poison dart frogs, but can still cause discomfort.The Bornean flat-headed frog (Barbourula kalimantanensis) is among the frog and salamander species with no lungs at all - they breathe exclusively through their skin. It lives in cold, fast-flowing rainforest streams on the island of Borneo in Indonesia. Listed as endangered, this very rare frog's environment is under threat from pollution and the toxic byproducts of illegal gold mining. Author: Samantha Early