Called the "Big Maple Leaf," a coin weighing&nbsp;100 kilograms (220 pounds) was stolen from Berlin's Bode Museum earlier this week.&nbsp;Issued by the Royal Canadian Mint in 2007,&nbsp;it features the portrait of Queen Elizabeth II. The massive&nbsp;piece has&nbsp;a diameter of 53 centimeters (21 inches) and is three centimeters thick.&nbsp;It&nbsp;has also entered the Guinness Book of Records for its unsurpassed purity of 999.99/1000 gold.The thieves are believed to have broken into the building located on Berlin's famous Museum Island by setting up a ladder from the adjacent tram&nbsp;tracks. Deducing there were at least two people involved, investigators later revealed that the thieves transported the stolen coin along the adjacent train tracks using a very old-fashioned device: a wheelbarrow.&nbsp;DW spoke with Bernhard Weisser, the director of the M nzkabinett of the Staatliche Museen zu Berlin, the numismatic collection to which the Bode Museum belongs.DW: Professor&nbsp;Weisser, were you shocked when you learned of the theft? The Bode Museum is part of Berlin's Museum IslandBernhard Weisser: Yes, absolutely. At first I thought it was an early April Fool's joke. Then I thought it was a test for the alarm system. And when I finally understood what had happened, my knees were shaking.What did you ask yourself first? My first question was: How could this happen? How could our security system, which has functioned for decades, be overcome? And then I immediately thought of the staff, but fortunately nothing happened to them.Have you reached any answers as to how the theft happened? Was the museum adequately protected? It wasn't just child's play with a ladder and a wheelbarrow. Numerous security systems had to be overcome. But of course the answer is still no. Otherwise, it wouldn't have happened. It takes a great deal of criminal energy to get around these security systems. I think we will learn more soon.The material value of the coin was much higher than its face value. Presumably the thieves were after the gold. They seemed less interested in art history. How much will insurance pay? The gold coin was on loan and therefore insured. We don't yet know the damage exactly. We still hope that the coin will surface.How much is the coin ensured for? With art, that's a tricky situation. With this coin, the material value and the replacement value were calculated. Together with the lender, we then reached a sum to insure the coin for what seemed appropriate for both parties - and which also took the possibility of replacement into account. Of course, there are only five of these coins, so that makes it extremely difficult. That is also the reason why we don't lend out the Nefertiti - because the insurance would be so expensive that no one could pay for it.You are an expert in numismatics. In terms of art history, how valuable is this coin? We have had the object since 2010. At the time, we were holding an exhibition on giant gold pieces. The coin was the largest and heaviest coin in the world when it was made - it was truly a gold giant. After the exhibition, we suggested to the lender that the piece be left in our museum on permanent loan.The Royal Canadian Mint had a good reason to make the coin. They were very proud of managing to make gold coins that were particularly pure, which is why they wanted to create these special ones.Seven years have passed since the collector entrusted you with the coin. Has their trust been broken? We are in constant contact with the collector, whose trust is very strong. The owner is of course just as shocked as we are. But at the moment I don't think that our good and trusting relationship has suffered. Of course such an attack impacts him as much as it does us at the museum.Will he lend to you again? We hope that the coin will resurface. And the biggest sign of trust for us would be if we could show it once again - no matter what condition it might be in.Professor Bernhard Weisser has been the director of the M nzkabinett of the Staatliche Museen zu Berlin, one of the largest numismatic collections in the world, since June 2015. The collection includes the Bode Museum, from which the Big Maple Leaf was stolen. For more spectacular art thefts, click through the gallery below. The world's most famous portrait, Leonardo da Vinci's "Mona Lisa," was stolen in 1911. A young Italian named Vincenzo Peruggia took the painting from the Louvre in Paris. Dressed like a member of the museum staff, he was able to hide the relatively small painting under his work coat. It reappeared in 1913 after an art dealer alerted the policeRembrandt's portrait of "Jacques III de Gheyn" wasn't stolen from Britain's Dulwich Picture Gallery just once, but four times, namely in 1966, 1973, 1981 and 1986. That's why it came to be nicknamed "takeaway Rembrandt." But, fortunately, after each theft, the painting was recovered. The burglary of 13 paintings from the Isabella Steward Gardner Museum stirred international attention in 1990. Two men disguised as policemen broke into the building and removed the paintings, among them Edouard Manet's "Chez Tortoni" and Jan Vermeer's "Concert" (pictured). The empty picture frames are still hanging on the walls. In 1991, a man managed to lock himself into a bathroom in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam - unnoticed. With the help of a warden, he removed a total of 20 paintings, among them the Dutch painter's "Self portrait with Easel." However, police were able to recoverthe booty in the getaway car just one hour later, The thieves were caught a few months later. "Madonna of the Yarnwinder" by Leonardo da Vinci, estimated at 70 million euros ($76 million) was stolen from a Scottish castle in 2003. Two thieves who entered an exhibition as tourists overpowered the security guard at Drumlanrig Castle and fled with the precious artwork. It remained lost for years until it was discovered during a raid in Glasgow in 2007. Two paintings by expressionist Edvard Munch, "The Scream" and "Madonna," were stolen in Oslo in 2004. Two armed robbers invaded the Munch Museum and, witnessed by numerous visitors, ripped the paintings from the wall. Police were able to retrieve the two famous paintings. However, "The Scream" was damaged so badly during the incident that it could never be fully restored. In 2008, armed thieves pilfered four paintings amounting to a total value of 180 million Swiss francs ($182 million) from the collection B hrle in Zurich. "The Boy in the Red Vest" by Paul C zanne, "Ludovic Lepic and His Daughters" by Edgar Degas, "Blossoming Chestnut Branches" by Vincent van Gogh, and "Poppy Field Near V theuil" by Claude Monet (pictured) all resurfaced later on.In March 2017, a huge gold coin weighing 100 kilos was stolen from Berlin's Bode Museum. Just its sheer material value alone amounts to four million dollars. It is believed that the thieves found their way into the building through a window. The "Big Maple Leaf" coin originated in Canada. It is 53 cm high and 3 cm thick. On the front side, it bears an image of Queen Elizabeth II. Author: Ines Eisele (ad)