Why is Erdogan so upset?Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan would like to enhance his powers by changing Turkey's constitution. To this end, Turkey will hold a referendum on the amendments, proposed by his Justice and Development Party (AKP), on April 16.In an effort to secure a majority in that poll, supporters of the amendment are trying to rally expatriate voters. There are around 1.4 million Turkish citizens living in Germany who are eligible to cast ballots, so theoretically the foreign vote could prove decisive.Some pro-amendment rallies in Germany have been canceled recently. Erdogan sees this as evidence that the German government and Chancellor Angela Merkel are siding against him, and he has accused both the government and Merkel herself of engaging in "Nazi practices."Read: Turkish referendum threatens formal divorce with EUHow has Germany reacted to the accusations of "Nazi practices?"To put it mildly, German politicians are not at all pleased by Erdogan's repeated invocations of the country's National Socialist past. Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel, for instance, said that Erdogan had gone "too far" and complained about the Turkish President's rhetoric to his Turkish counterpart. Leaders of political parties across the spectrum in Germany have condemned Erdogan's remarks.The row has also attracted attention outside German and Turkey. For example, the head of the conservative faction in the European parliament, Manfred Weber has said Erdogan's remarks have hurt Turkey's reputation abroad.Following a warning from Merkel on Monday that Germany could ban all AKP campaign events if Ankara continued with its Nazi insults, the Turkish government announced that it was abandoning plans for future rallies in Germany. A Cologne-based AKP representative called the move a "gesture of goodwill" toward Berlin.&nbsp;&nbsp;But critics, including many people within Germany's Jewish community, say that government's response hasn't been vigorous enough.What do Erdogan's detractors say?The constitutional amendments, if approved, would transform Turkey from a parliamentary to a presidential system. Erdogan's opponents say that this is tantamount to doing away with democracy and giving the Turkish president autocratic powers.Critics also claim that Erdogan supporters are exerting pressure through religious and business associations in Germany to get expatriate&nbsp;Turks to vote for the constitutional amendments.Are Turkish political events forbidden in Germany?Not by Germany. There's nothing in German law to prevent foreign political events as long as they don't violate the German constitution. Expatriate&nbsp;Americans in Germany, for instance, held political rallies during last year's US election. Turkish citizens are, in principle, free to do the same.However, event organizers need to apply for permits to ensure that the venues are appropriate for the numbers of participants expected. Decisions about permits are made at the local level. This has proven a problem. Pro-amendment rallies in Gaggenau, Cologne&nbsp;and Hamburg&nbsp;have been canceled because of irregularities with the proposed locations.Ironically, Turkish law prohibits politicians from campaigning abroad, but this law isn't enforced.&nbsp; Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2ZWj4What are some of the other issues behind the conflict?Berlin is very concerned about a German reporter with Turkish roots, Deniz Yucel, who was arrested in Turkey last month. Critics say his detention is an example of the Erdogan government attacking critical journalists and the free press.The detainment of Deniz Yucel, a German reporter with Turkish roots, is one issue behind the diplomatic row between Berlin and Ankara.For its part, Ankara is upset that Kurds have been allowed to hold rallies in Germany. Erdogan has accused the German government of supporting the Kurdistan&nbsp;Workers' Party (PKK), which has fought a three decades-long war against the Turkish state and is a recognized terror organization.&nbsp;Ankara has also accused Berlin of not taking a clear stand against last July's failed coup attempt. Germany has voiced concern over sweeping post-coup purges, while Turkey complains Germany has done nothing against the Gulen movement, who Erdogan blames for the coup attempt. The head of German intelligence said this month he had received no evidence the Gulen movement was behind the coup.&nbsp;What is the potential fall-out of the diplomatic row?The conflict has put severe strain on German-Turkish relations, and that has further dampened Turkey's prospects for joining the EU. The foreign policy spokesman for Merkel's conservative CDU-CSU, Norbert R ttgen, has said that&nbsp;Turkey's bid for membership would be "over," if the constitutional amendments are approved. On March 23, Erdogan said that after the referendum Turkey would review "from A to Z" political and administrative relations with the EU.&nbsp;But despite all the acrimony between Germany and Turkey, deep cultural and economic ties connect the two countries. Optimists hope that German-Turkish relations could normalize somewhat after the referendum, regardless of the outcome.And as politicians in Berlin freely admit, Germany cannot afford a complete break with Ankara for a variety of reasons, including the EU-Turkey deal of last year, which Berlin&nbsp;has relied upon to reduce the number of refugees.President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has repeatedly accused Dutch and German politicians of acting like "Nazis" and claiming the "spirit of fascism" is rampant in Europe. He later invoked medieval religious wars in the context of escalating tensions between the EU and Turkey. "My dear brothers, a battle has started between the cross and the half moon. There can be no other explanation," Erdogan said. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu, meanwhile, was not to be outdown by his boss. Speaking on Thursday, Cavusoglu said Europe was losing its unity. "Religious wars will soon begin in&nbsp;Europe... If things continue as they are, then it will be so." "You will learn how to behave towards us. If you do not learn, we will teach you."German Chancellor Angela Merkel welcomed the election victory for the center-right prime minister Mark Rutte in divisive Dutch elections. "I was very happy that a high turnout led to a very pro-European result, a clear signal," she said. "I don't intend to participate in this race to trade provocations." Referring to Erdogan's attacks, she added: "The insults need to stop."Meanwhile, Germany's Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere said Ankara was playing the victim with its attacks on its NATO allies to galvanize support ahead of its referendum in April. Turkish politicians had "no business" campaigning in Germany, he said. France and Germany plan to establish a European center to counter extremist propaganda and deradicalize young people, he also revealed this week.After a week of heightened tensions between Turkey and the Netherlands, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte emerged victorious in a bruising battle with Geert Wilders. The populist's invective against all things Muslim and anything from the EU failed to earn him the breakthrough that many had come to count on as a given.French President Francois Hollande congratulated Rutte for his election success and his "victory against extremism." He said that "the values of openness, respect for others, and a faith in Europe's future are the only true response to the nationalist impulses and isolationism that are shaking the world." In a joint statement with Angela Merkel, he denounced Erdogan's remarks as "unacceptable." After boosts in Britain and the United States over the past year and Wednesday's setback in the Netherlands, populism now heads to France for its next test of political viability. Now it is for Marine Le Pen of the National Front to carry the torch in presidential elections starting next month. Meanwhile, Germany's far-right kept on message. "I can not hide the fact that we wanted Wilders to have had a better result," the leader of the populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) Frauke Petry said. "Wilders addressed the right issues in the election campaign, but he might not always have had the right tone. Citizens want a clear message, but they are afraid of a hard tone," Petry said.Konstantin Kosachev, chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the Russian parliament, wrote that Europe had been "weakened" by the elections in the Netherlands. "French Presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron and Merkel may breathe for the time being after the victory of Rutte, but the fear among the established European elites facing the challenges of the 21st century remains palpable," he wrote.