The US rejected on Wednesday China's appeal for talks with North Korea, saying its leader Kim Jong Un was behaving "irrationally."Pyongyang has temporarily barred all Malaysian citizens from exiting North Korea in a row over the assassination of the brother of Kim Jong Un. In turn, Malaysia banned Pyongyang's diplomatic staff from leaving. (07.03.2017) Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi says this could prevent a "head-on collision" amid growing tension. Meanwhile, the UN Security Council condemned Pyongyang's latest launches, promising further measures. (08.03.2017) South Korea has claimed North Korea fired multiple missiles which flew about a thousand kilometers into the sea near the coast of Japan. The secretive state is banned by the UN from using missile technology. (06.03.2017) Amid heightened tension between Soul and Pyongyang, the US and South Korean militaries started a set of annual drills. Several hundred thousand soldiers are expected to be involved in two months of exercises. (01.03.2017) Pyongyang is trying to improve its negotiating position while testing the new US government. And competition between the US and China means the isolated country doesn't have much to fear, says DW's Alexander Freund. (13.02.2017) The new US defense secretary has soothed concerns that the Trump administration would turn its back on South Korea. The two countries plan to move forward on the installment the THAAD missile defense system. (03.02.2017) China had asked the US to halt joint military activities with South Korea in exchange&nbsp;for the suspension of North Korea's nuclear and missile programs. State Department spokesman Mark Toner said China's proposal was not a "viable deal.""This is apples and oranges," he said. "What we're doing in terms of our defense cooperation with South Korea is in no way comparable to the blatant disregard that North Korea has shown with respect to international law."'Irresponsible arrogance'In the United Nations, US Ambassador Nikki Haley said North Korea's actions called for a different response."We are not dealing with a rational person," Haley told reporters after the UN Security Council discussed North Korea's Monday launch of four ballistic missiles."It is an unbelievable, irresponsible arrogance that we are seeing coming out of Kim Jong Un at this time," Haley said.She said the new US administration was reevaluating how it would handle North Korea and that "all options were on the table."She added&nbsp;that the US must see "some sort of positive action" from North Korea before it could take Kim Jong Un's regime seriously, making it clear that North Korea had to act first."We have not seen any goodwill at all coming from North Korea," Haley said. "I appreciate all my counterparts wanting to talk about talks and negotiations (but) we are not dealing with a rational person."'Invincible Hwasong rockets'After joint military drills between the US and South Korea, North Korea fired the missiles into the sea off Japan's coast on Monday. In the past year Pyongyang fired dozens of missiles and conducted two nuclear tests in defiance of UN resolutions.North Korea's Foreign Ministry warned on Wednesday that it would "reduce the bases of aggression and provocation to ashes with its invincible Hwasong rockets tipped with nuclear warheads and reliably defend the security of the country and its people's happiness in case the US and the South Korean puppet forces fire even a single bullet at the territory of the DPRK [North Korea]."Thousands of goose-stepping soldiers filed through Pyongyang's main Kim Il Sung Square, named after North Korea's founding leader, as the country marked the ruling party's 70th birthday on Saturday. The buildings around the plaza were festooned with red party flags and the national colors of blue, red and white.Jet planes flew in formation overhead, as cheering crowds below held up colored squares to spell out a giant "70." The carefully choreographed festivities took months of careful planning and a mammoth mobilization of state personnel and resources.North Korean leader Kim Jong Un saluted during the military parade alongside Liu Yunshan (third right), a senior official from China's ruling Communist Party. China was the only country to send a diplomat to attend the 70th anniversary celebration. North Korea is politically isolated in the international community, and China remains an important diplomatic ally and trading partner.Kim presided over the parade as troops marched in formation, led first by a corps of soldiers dressed in the style of the revolutionary force that fought Japan during World War II.Then came columns of tanks, armored vehicles, rocket launchers and ballistic missiles, in a show aimed to boost patriotism and demonstrate North Korea's military strength. When plans for the grand parade were announced back in February, the ruling party's top decision-making body stressed the importance of "cutting-edge" weaponry.Dressed in his customary black suit, Kim Jong Un made a rare speech at the parade, telling the cheering crowds that the country was ready to fight threats posed by the US. "Our revolutionary armed forces are capable of fighting any kind of war provoked by the US and we are ready to protect our people and the blue sky of our motherland," he said.Kim Jong Un is the third generation in his family's dynasty. His grandfather, Kim Il Sung, founded the Workers' Party in 1945 and was later succeeded by Kim's father, Kim Jong Il (above). The original leadership of Kim Il Sung spawned a personality cult in the 1960s that redefined the party "as the party of the leader, and has remained so ever since," North Korea expert Andrei Lankov told AFP.Risk of warChinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi warned negotiations were needed to avert what he termed a "head-on collision."China's UN Ambassador Liu Jieyi warned that "if you look at ... the development of events now on the Korean Peninsula there's a real danger, there's a real risk."The alternative to China's proposal "would be escalation of tension, and the situation may get out of control," he told The Associated Press news agency."We should avoid any worsening of the situation, or still any conflict, any sparks triggering a larger-scale conflict or even war on the Korean Peninsula," Liu said.South Korean Ambassador Cho Tae-yul rejected China's deal saying the military actions were defensive."Linking this exercise to anything else, which is illegal nuclear and missile provocation by North Korea, is inappropriate and unacceptable, and I think this is just trying to link the un-linkable," he said."All kinds of options have been exhausted so far," Cho said, "So the only available means to change the North Korean behavior fundamentally is to continue to keep up the pressure and sanctions on North Korea."aw/se (Reuters, AP, AFP) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2Yp7v