"I'm terribly worried," says German film director and writer J rg Tittel, 38. "I feel alienated in a country which until now I had considered home." Married to a British director, with two children born in the UK, Tittel is one of the many EU nationals facing uncertainty over his right to remain in the UK post-Brexit.Although Prime Minister Theresa May has indicated securing the rights of EU workers in the UK as a "priority" for negotiations, this sentiment has not gone as far to unilaterally guarantee their status, much to the disappointment of the EU nationals living and working in the country, as well as their colleagues, employers and families.J rg Tittel says the Brexit is a "kick in the teeth" for EU nationals who have worked and paid taxes in the UK for many yearsRead: UK House of Lords votes to amend Brexit bill over EU nationals' rights&nbsp;"Kick in the teeth"The process is seen as unnecessarily convoluted, and some, such as Tittel, see the lack of clarity as "a kick in the teeth" to EU nationals who have "paid tax, brought employment, brought their culture etc" to the country, such as himself. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2ZxTrSergio Dias Figueiredo, from Portugal, works in property management and has been in the UK for over six years. He decided to apply for a permanent residency card "to be on the safe side" but his first application was rejected. "The application was 85 pages long. I was told I didn't provide enough evidence so I had to apply and pay the fee again. They needed P60s [tax&nbsp;income form - the ed.], bank statements - details of all my transactions over the last five years. It didn't seem right I had to provide such detailed information about my life," he told DW.Finnish economist Tuomas Haanper , 38, equally wished to get his documentation "sooner rather than later" and has found the process of collating the evidence rather onerous. "It's not something you are prepared for, as before you didn't need to apply." In particular, the requirement to send his passport, which must be submitted alongside the application and is only returned once it is processed. "I just can't afford to lose my passport for an unknown period of time."Tuomas Haanper says applying for a permanent residency card is a red-tape nightmareUncertain statusOthers such as Polish international trade administrator, Anna Doherty, 29, are inclined to wait to see the outcome of Brexit negotiations. Though Anna is married to a Brit, and has lived in the UK for almost 10 years, she still has concerns about her status. "My husband and his family all voted for Brexit. They said it wouldn't affect me, but how could it not? It's scary. If I go on holiday, I worry I might not be allowed back in the country. But I think it's best to wait and see what the rules will be."Official guidance and information as to who should apply and what evidence is required is proving to be limited at best and fueling anxiety. Brazilian-Italian Vivian Marangoni, 32, a lawyer in the civil service, says that many are turning to forums on Facebook where fellow UK-based EU nationals are exchanging advice (and horror stories) about the process, some of it more reliable than others.Read:&nbsp;Post-Brexit fears prey on EU nationals in the UKLack of guidance"Before Brexit, it was very rare to have to advise EU nationals or their families," says Colin Yeo, an immigration barrister at Garden Court Chambers. "The rules were relatively straightforward, they didn't really need these documents. But since the change to naturalization requirements in 2015, for which the permanent residency card is now a prerequisite, and the outcome of the referendum last year, there has been a real spike."Alastair Bayliss, a spokesperson from the Home Office, emphasized that the status for EU nationals in UK, and the requirements and process for obtaining residency currently remains "unchanged" and that a digitization program&nbsp;implemented last October allows the residency application to be completed online - although all 85 pages must still be printed and posted.But Yeo suggests the process could been made less onerous. "The Home Office have been making it more difficult for the the last 2-3 years. For example, they have taken a very hard line on the need for comprehensive sickness insurance for periods EU nationals are not in work in the UK. Now that is coming back to haunt them." Indeed, Bernard Ryan, Professor of Migration Law at the University of Leicester, suggests at the current rate it would take 25 years for the Home Office to deal with all residence cases for current EU Nationals residing here.The most expensive passport in the world?Is it worth the price tag? And does anyone really still want one?German-born Volker Hirsch, 48, who works in the tech industry, says he is less worried for himself but for those in more precarious situations. "I have the options and means to get a British passport. But for those without the means I believe it's extremely scary. At 1,250 (1,440 euros), it must be the most expensive in the world." He particularly feels that the "bargaining chip" metaphor keeps rearing its head because the line regarding the status for EU nationals in the UK and the one communicated to EU immigrants is the same: "Theresa May has offered no reassurance or appreciation of the net contribution of EU nationals to the UK economy, which is borne out by the facts. We don't have good faith anymore."Read:&nbsp;UK surge in German citizenship applicationsYeo also believes the situation could have been handled much better. "We don't know when, how, or what status will be granted to the three million EU nationals living here. People feel very nervous. And, frankly, pissed off at the way they are being treated."For now at least, it seems uncertainty has already caused more damage than Article 50 itself.Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon gives any existing member of the European Union the right to quit unilaterally and outlines the procedure for doing so. It gives the state concerned two years to negotiate a deal for its exit. Once Article 50 is triggered, it cannot be stopped, except by the unanimous consent of all member states. There are five elements in Article 50. They state that the exiting country must notify the European Council formally and that it is given a two-year period to reach an agreement. Article 50 also states that the country concerned cannot take part in EU s internal discussions about its departure. The exit deal must be approved by a "qualified majority" and must also get the backing of MEPs.The UK decided in favor of leaving the EU in a referendum in June 2016. After lengthy parliamentary debates and legal procedures, Prime Minister Theresa May looks all set to send a formal letter of notification to EU President Donald Tusk on March 29, which will trigger Article 50. Officials in Brussels have already outlined a divorce bill for Britain of between 55 and 60 billion euros.The EU is expected to give a first response later this week. A summit of EU leaders on April 29 is then to lay down guidelines for the Brexit talks, which are expected to start in May or June. The hardest part of the negotiations will be determining the status of more than a million Britons living in other parts of the EU and of some 3 million EU citizens in Britain, and working out trade details.By autumn this year, the UK government is expected to introduce legislation to leave the EU and put all existing EU laws into British law - the Great Repeal Bill. The possible move will annul the 1972 European Communities Act (ECA), which gives EU law instant effect in the UK, and give parliament the power to absorb parts of EU legislation into UK law, scrapping elements it does not want to keep.EU leaders have said they want to conclude the talks within 18 months to allow the terms of the exit to be ratified by UK and the European Parliaments as well as the EU states. If no agreement is reached in two years and no extension is agreed, the UK automatically leaves the EU and all existing agreements.The fifth paragraph of Article 50 raises the possibility of a state wanting to rejoin the EU after having left it. This would be considered under Article 49. Author: Aasim Saleem