Pyongyang has temporarily barred all Malaysian citizens from exiting North Korea in a row over the assassination of the brother of Kim Jong Un. In turn, Malaysia banned Pyongyang's diplomatic staff from leaving. (07.03.2017) North Korea's ambassador to Malaysia has left the country after being expelled amid a row over the bizarre killing of Kim Jong Nam. In a tit-for-tat response, Pyongyang then ordered Malaysia's ambassador to go home. (06.03.2017) Malaysia has charged an Indonesian and Vietnamese woman with the murder of the estranged half-brother of North Korea's leader. Both face the mandatory death penalty by hanging if found guilty. (01.03.2017) Embodying this year's International Women's Day theme of being bold for change, lawyer Siti Kasim has been striving to empower Malaysia's marginalized and oppressed communities to speak up for themselves. (08.03.2017) Malaysian officials will start formal talks with North Korea on negotiating the return of nine Malaysians stranded in Pyongyang, the foreign minister said on Saturday.Three Malaysian embassy staff and six family members are stuck in the North Korean capital after Pyongyang barred Malaysians from leaving the country on Tuesday - prompting the same move from the Malaysian government."Talks are set to begin ... in next few days" with Pyongyang, Foreign Minister Anifah Aman told a news conference."They want to start talking, but ... before we start talking we have to establish a lot of factors first," he said, without offering further details.He added that although several countries offered to mediate between the two countries, there will be no "third party" at the talks.The mysterious poisoning death of Kim Jong Nam, the half-brother of North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un, last month at&nbsp;Kuala Lumpur's International Airport,&nbsp;sparked a tense standoff between the previously friendly Asian nations.Identifying the bodyMalaysian officials claim Kim Jong Nam died after two women smeared his face with VX nerve agent. North Korea, however, has never confirmed the identity of the dead man but denounced the investigation as an attempt to smear the regime.Pyongyang has also demanded Malaysia return Kim Jong Nam's body, but Kuala Lumpur authorities have refused to release the corpse without a DNA sample from his next-of-kin.Anifah said that the matter of the body and other factors will be discussed with North Korean authorities when the talks begin, adding: "We don't want to keep the body more than what is necessary."rs/jlw (AP, AFP, Reuters) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2YSTy