Selfies, flowers, autographs - on the campaign trail, Martin Schulz rushes from one enthusiastic SPD base to the next. It's a change of fortunes that was considered impossible in this election year: the 'Schulz effect.' Social Democratic Party (SPD) leader&nbsp;Martin Schulz&nbsp;has discussed some of his policy goals&nbsp;in an interview published by the German weekly&nbsp;"Bild am Sonntag," offering insight into how he plans to&nbsp;challenge Angela Merkel for Germany's top political job."I would tackle two things directly: the clear commitment to strengthening the European Union and the abolition of one of the greatest injustices: that women for the same work earn less than men," Schutz said.Germany has one of the highest pay gaps in the EU, with a wage discrepancy of over 20 percent between men and women. The politician with the center-left SPD added that his policy will be geared towards the work and life of ordinary citizens.Schulz, who served as European Parliament president from 2012 and stepped down earlier this year, also vowed to curb executive pay. He has made social justice issues a key part of his pitch for leading the country."I promise that, as chancellor, I will implement a law limiting managers' pay in my agenda for the first 100 days in office," he told "Bild am Sonntag."Schulz said he does not intend to offer tax cuts after German recorded a record-breaking budget surplus amounting to more than 20 billion euros ($21.62 billion). Instead, he says he would use the excess cash for education and infrastructure projects.'We owe it to our soldiers'Schulz said he wanted to increase defense spending, saying&nbsp;Germany's armed forces known as the Bundeswehr needed more money and should receive it."We owe it to our soldiers that they are optimally equipped," Schulz said in the interview. However, he stopped short of calling for a comprehensive overhaul of the armed forces, in contrast to Chancellor Angela Merkel, who has vowed to go forward with a significant increase in defense spending.Defense spending has become a major subject of debate ahead of the parliamentary elections slated for September after US President Donald Trump's administration warned&nbsp;NATO member states of possible fallout if they failed to meet a 2 percent of GDP target.However, Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel, a member of Schulz' party,&nbsp;has questioned how the target should be assessed, arguing it should include aid and development programs.Schulz said Germany and other European nations needed to work together to stem crises instead of solely pouring money into defense.Meanwhile, the ex-European Parliament president said Gabriel, who stepped out of the race for the German chancellery, would "certainly be part of the federal government." He said Gabriel has done a "super job" as foreign minister.Polls have shown a narrowing gap between Schulz's SPD and Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) in the run-up to the Bundestag elections.The stakes are high for Germany's election year - with Chancellor Angela Merkel up for a fourth term and the populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party attempting to cash in on anti-migrant sentiment, one thing is clear - German politics won't be the same by the end of 2017. Here's a look at the most important dates.Residents of the state of Saarland on the border to France on March 26. With 51 seats, Saarland is Germany's smallest state parliament. State premier Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer of the CDU (above) is seeking to secure a third term.Danish residents are also allowed to vote in Schleswig-Holstein's state parliament elections in May. In the last election, the Danish minority party won three of the northern state's 69 seats. They became part of the SPD-led government along with the Green party.With 17.5 million inhabitants, the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia is Germany's most populous state. With its traditional rural regions and diverse urban zones, NRW's state parliament election is also perceived as a test run for how the federal election will play out in September.The 97th day before the election, is the cut off date for any party to announce its intention to run for the Bundestag. They have to submit their applications by 6 p.m. to the Federal Returning Officer. Roderich Egeler (above) oversees the election and heads Germany's Statistical Office.On the 79th day before the election, the parties that are allowed to take part in the election are announced by the Federal Returning Officer. If a party does not agree with decision, it has four days to file a complaint with Germany's Constitutional Court.Political parties in Germany have until the 69th day before the election to determine which candidates will be running in which constituency. These representatives make up the first vote on Germany's split ballot. Parties must also submit a list of candidates for the party vote on the second half of the ballot.Smaller parties that filed a suit with the Constitutional Court to be allowed to take part in the election will receive their verdicts today. This option has only been available since the last Bundestag election in 2013. At that time, 11 parties petitioned the court to appear on the ballot - but none were successful.Unlike other countries, parties in Germany cannot put up campaign posters or run TV ads until 6 weeks before the election. But on August 13, the campaign floodgates open and no lamp post will be safe from the cardboard visages of each party's main candidates.A little over one month shy of the election, the most important list is compiled - the electoral register or voter list. In Germany, every citizen who is 18 years or older can vote in the general election - meaning there are 61.5 million eligible voters this year.At this point, all eligible voters should have recieved an authorization certificate in the mail. People who aren't already on the voter list still have time to register. Those who wish to vote-by-mail can request their ballot.Less than a week to go and preparations are kicking into high gear. Ballots, polling booths and transport boxes start rolling in and election workers are trained. Local authorities must inform voters where they should go to vote. Residents can still register until 36 hours before the election.The big day has finally arrived. Schools, gym halls and community centers are transformed as people arrive to cast their ballots. Polling stations open at 8:00 a.m. sharp and at 6:00 p.m. they close again. The votes are tallied and the Federal Returning Officer announces the preliminary results that same night.Only after all of the representative and party votes are counted, the final result is announced. If a candidate did not win his or her constituency, they could still get a seat in the Bundestag if they made the party's regional list.The newly elected parliament must meet for the first time no later than one month after the election. Afterwards comes the tricky work of coalition negotiations, followed by a secret ballot to elect the next chancellor. If anyone wants to challenge the validity of the election, they have two months to do so. All voters, the state election overseers, the president of the Bundestag and the Federal Election Commissioner (above) are entitled to appeal the result. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier ls/gsw (AFP, dpa)