The unelected upper chamber of the UK parliament voted 366 to 268 on Tuesday&nbsp;to require&nbsp;approval from parliament, not just the government, on the final deal for Britain to leave the European Union and future trade ties.It's an amendment to the bill which was drafted to empower Prime Minister Theresa May to trigger Article 50 of the EU's Lisbon Treaty. Triggering Article 50 starts the clock ticking on the two-year process for the UK and the bloc to disentangle themselves from one another. May had promised to begin the withdrawal process by the end of March. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2YV9dThe timeline for her to do so is already about a week behind schedule as the House of Lords also voted on March 1 for another amendment which would guarantee the rights of the estimated 3 million EU citizens living in the UK, but May remained confident she would still meet her goal. Her government said the amendments would damage their standing in Brexit negotiations."It is clear that some in the Lords would seek to frustrate that process, and it is the Government's intention to ensure that does not happen. We will now aim to overturn these amendments in the House of Commons," Brexit Minister David Davis said in response to the vote.&nbsp;Parliamentary ping pongThe vote was&nbsp;seen as a blow to the Conservative government as it signals a possible stand-off between the unelected House of Lords and the elected lower chamber, the House of Commons.In many cases amendments to bills made by one house need to go back to the other for approval in a potentially time-consuming process known as "parliamentary ping pong." In this case, the Commons is likely to overturn the amendments made by the Lords.May had&nbsp;told the Lords repeatedly not to amend the short bill which she says was designed only to implement the referendum result."She's been clear that she wants an unamended bill to pass. This is a simple bill with one purpose - to give the government the power to trigger Article 50," her spokesman told reporters on Tuesday.Additional amendments are also viewed as a further sign of the domestic opposition Theresa May could face as she negotiates Brexit, which was voted for by 51.9 percent of voters in a June 2016 referendum.Tough negotiations expectedEU leaders have indicated that the UK will not be given an easy ride during the negotiations process, partly due to fears that&nbsp;Brexit could set a precedent for the bloc's 27 other member states."Now it's important that we in the EU-27 stick together," German Finance Minister Wolfgang Sch uble told reporters in Berlin, adding that at the conclusion of the negotiations it should be clear to everyone that remaining in the EU had more advantages than leaving it.May has expressed optimism about the deal the UK will be able to reach with the EU. However, at least in theory, if a deal is not reached by the time the two-year deadline laid out in Article 50 runs out, the trade deals and contracts between Britain and the bloc would be void overnight. In practice, however, London and Brussels alike are stepping into uncharted waters.A view of "The Flamingo" amusement arcade in Great Yarmouth. 72% of people in this town on England's east coast voted to leave the European Union during the referendum in June 2016. The area has the third lowest percentage of university educated residents and among the highest number of working class voters.The five most euroskeptic areas are all on Britain's east coast, including Great Yarmouth in Norfolk. One reason might be a rise in immigration, as well as a general decline in the standard of living, which has led to huge frustrations in these areas in recent years.A UKIP sticker in a car's rear window in Great Yarmouth. The seaside resort is situated some 140 miles (200 km) northeast of London.The borough of Hartlepool voted to leave the European Union by 69.6%. There was a similar result in much of the Britain's northeast, including in cities such as Sunderland and Stanley.A row of housing in Stanley, County Durham. The former colliery town is one of the cheapest places to buy a house in the UK. Durham voted to leave the European Union by 57.5%. In the whole northeast, Newcastle was the only borough to vote Remain, though by a narrow margin. This was most likely due to its large student population and dependency on EU funding. The former Joplings Department Store stands derelict. Plans to convert the building into a designer hotel are currently underway. A report by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation in 2016 named Sunderland one of the most declining cities in the UK. It also says that ten of the UK s top 12 struggling cities are based in the north. No city in the south featured in the top 12, or even 24, of the index.A mural of local football hero, Raich Carter, embellishes the wall of the Blue Bell Pub in Hendon, his former area in Sunderland. Wearmouth Colliery, which was a major North Sea coal mine, was the largest mine in Sunderland. Also one of the most important mines in northeast England, it was closed at the end of 1993. The former mine is now the site of Sunderland AFC s Stadium of Light. Author: Nadine Berghausen se/msh (AFP, AP, Reuters)