Arsenal 1-5 Bayern Munich (2-10 agg.) (Walcott 20' - Lewandowski 55' pen., Robben 68', Costa 78', Vidal 80', 85')Labeled as Arsenal's European farewell game after the thumping Bayern Munich handed them in the first leg, the second leg delivered as billed despite a promising start from the hosts. Laurent Koscielny's dismissal in the second half proved a turning point on a night when Arsenal made it seven seasons without reaching the Champions League quarterfinals.In the first 10 minutes, the home side couldn't reach the ball as Bayern controlled possession, occasionally probing down the right with Arjen Robben.The home side burst into life after that, with Theo Walcott nearly nicking an effort past an out-rushing Manuel Neuer before Olivier Giroud nearly bundled home from close range. The tide had turned though, and Arsenal capitalized when Walcott sprinted through on the right and rifled through Neuer into the roof of the net.Raised by their opener, Arsenal went in search of another. Walcott had a penalty appeal turned down and fired into the side netting as Arsene Wenger's side delivered an overdue performance. Giroud blazed over and then Robert Lewandowski flashed missed a good chance to end the tie once and for all after good work by Robben.Alexis Sanchez, back in the starting line-up after sitting on the bench against Liverpool, hit a tame free kick at Neuer as an exciting first half came to an end.A tie of two halvesBefore the game, home fans protested, calling for Arsene Wenger to go and not renew his contract but they couldn't argue with the commitment of their side. One minute into the second half and Arsenal had all of their outfield players in Bayern's half, pressing hard to win the ball back. They soon did, but an unmarked Giroud headed over.For all of Arsenal's pressure, they couldn't keep Bayern at bay forever and when Koscielny gave away a foul in the box and saw red after the fifth official advised the referee of the foul's severity, Bayern took their chance. Lewandowski made no mistake from the spot to score goal number 17 in his last 16 games in all competitions this season. It was also Bayern's seventh goal from a set-piece in Europe this season - the most of all teams.Robben took advantage of poor play from Alexis Sanchez to add some gloss to an already shiny scoreline. With that, many Arsenal fans headed for the exit with their team 22 minutes away from doing the same in the Champions League.Those who left missed Douglas Costa come off the bench and curl in a third, as well as Arturo Vidal chip in a fourth as the hosts crumbled for the second time in as many weeks against their German opponents. The humiliation was complete when Costa squared for Vidal to tap in his second. Bayern had made their sixth consecutive Champions League quarterfinal and while Arsenal are left needing a strong look at themselves, Bayern's sights are firmly set on a spot in the final.