Barcelona 6-1 Paris Saint-Germain (6-5 on agg.) (Suarez 3', Kurzawa og 40', Messi pen 50', Neymar 88' 90' pen, Roberto 90'+5 - Cavani 62')A goal in the fifth-minute of injury time from Sergi Roberto gave Barcelona a miraculous&nbsp;6-1 win over Paris Saint Germain, as they reached the quarterfinals of the Champions League in breathtaking style.Barcelona&nbsp;scored three times in the last seven minutes to go through 6-5 on aggregate having lost 4-0 in Paris in the first leg.The home side were ahead after just three minutes when Luis Suarez headed past goalkeeper Kevin Trapp from close range.It was 2-0 five minutes from half-time when PSG defender Layvin Kurzawa sliced the ball into his own net after Andres Iniesta had found the key pass with a clever backheel.Lionel Messi made it 3-0 from the penalty spot just minutes into the second half after Neymar was fouled as Barcelona appeared poised to complete their unlikely comeback.PSG's Uruguayan striker Edinson Cavani silenced the Camp Nou with a powerful right-foot drive just after the hour mark, as PSG finally seemed to take control of the match.But two goals from Neymar in three minutes - one from a controversially-awarded penalty - brought the Spanish giants level before Roberto lunged to secure the winner from close range.Julian Draxler and Paris Saint-Germain blew Barcelona away in the first leg of their Champions League last 16 clash, winning 4-0 at the Parc des Princes. Former Schalke and Wolfsburg man Draxler got on the scoresheet, handing Unai Emery what seemed like an unassailable lead. No one had lost a four-goal first-leg lead in the Champions League ...Suarez scores after three minutes. There's not much in it, but the newly-installed video technology confirms that it crosses the line. German goalkeeper Kevin Trapp did his best, but was beaten to the ball by the Uruguayan. Barcelona lead on the night, although the advantage certainly still lay in the hands of the Parisians.Barcelona waited a long time for hope. Anything. Just a little bit. They didn't get it from Neymar or Lionel Messi - but from Paris Saint-Germain defender Layvin Kurzawa who agonizingly turned the ball past his own goalkeeper. Even with two, Barca needed to double this.There were no arguments about the first penalty of the night. Lionel Messi slammed the ball into the back of the net after 50 minutes to bring Barcelona within a goal of their target. But there was more tension and drama than the 96,000 in the Camp Nou could have ever expected.The enthusiasm was sucked out of the Camp Nou at 62 minutes when Edinson Cavani scored a crucial away goal for the French champions. Just like a balloon being popped with a pin, the energy was sapped out of Barcelona. Any talk of a comeback was dead - even with half an hour to go.Barcelona fans looked on from the stands, pensive. Neymar stepped up. With 10 minutes to go, the Brazilian pulled a rabbit from his magic hat, striking the ball masterfully from distance into the top corner. There was still a feeling of resignation, for now.You've heard it before with Barack Obama. Now you've heard it at the Camp Nou. Thousands of Barcelona fans held up placards with the famous slogan after Neymar slotted home a penalty kick after 18 seconds of injury time. From distraught to delirious, the seemingly impossible seemed possible.Sergio Roberto, of La Masia, of Barcelona, of Catalonia. The 25-year-old upstaged his teammates to score the sixth goal of a remarkable evening amid scenes of anarchy at the Camp Nou. He eventually disappeared under a flood of red-and-blue shirts, joined by head coach Luis Enrique. History had been made.What do Borussia M nchengladbach, Leixoes and Partizan Belgrade have in common? They have all overturned four-goal deficits in the second leg. But Barcelona, the generation's most successful club in the Champions League, are the first to do it in Europe's premier club tournament. After these scenes, Cardiff feels a lot closer. Author: Ross Dunbar mds/rd (AFP)