Republican lawmakers and aides to US President Donald Trump have dismissed an upcoming report from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) due out this week.The CBO report is expected to show that&nbsp;more Americans would be uninsured under the Republican plan to upend former Democratic&nbsp;President Barack Obama s signature healthcare Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare.Obamacare has been repeatedly criticized by Trump who called it a "disaster" during his campaign and vowed to replace it.Trump's cabinet took to Sunday political talk shows to praise the Affordable Care Act's replacement in its current form, and cast doubt on the credibility of the non-partisan CBO.&nbsp;"I love the folks at the CBO, they work really hard, they do, but sometimes we ask them to do stuff they're not capable of doing, and estimating the impact of a bill of this size probably isn't the isn't the best use of their time," White House budget director Mick Mulvaney said on ABC's "This Week."Gary Cohn, director of the White House National Economic Council, told "Fox News Sunday" that "they've said that many more people will be insured than are actually insured. But when we get the CBO score, we'll deal with that."The CBO is&nbsp;a federal agency set up in 1974&nbsp;within the legislative branch.&nbsp;Its&nbsp;mandate is to provide Congress with objective, nonpartisan and timely analysis to aid in economic and budgetary decisions on a wide array of programs covered by the federal budget.&nbsp;Unusual dismissalThe criticism of the CBO from the Trump administration is unusual. Previous administrations, as well as many lawmakers on both sides of the aisle, consider the CBO as a neutral arbiter.Not all in Congress, even Republicans, are on board with the state of the current healthcare plan. Republican representative Jim Jordan from Ohio told "Fox News Sunday," "I'm not for this plan and I think there's a lot of opposition to this plan in the House and Senate."Mulvaney added on "This Week" that Trump was open to adapting new policies to the healthcare plan. "This is the framework," Mulvaney said, referring to the current state of the plan. "This is the bill the president has looked at and said yes, this is what will work."kbd/jm (AFP, AP, Reuters)After his first travel ban was slapped down by several courts, Trump issued a revised order banning travel from six Muslim-majority countries. This time, Trump dropped Iraq from a list that included seven blacklisted countries first time around. The new order temporarily suspended the entire US refugee program, but exempted those with visas and who had already been formally accepted as refugees. From February and into March, President Trump further advanced his political objectives through a combination of executive orders, memoranda, memos, and the signing of bills into law. He also used his executive authority to undo guidelines issued under the Obama administration. In February, Trump signed 11 new executive orders (broad ranging directives that help the executive branch manage federal government operations) and issued one memorandum (a more direct executive action aimed at a specific agency) targeting the Department of Labor. The US President also signed five bills sent to his Oval Office desk by Congress, which will now become law. President Trump's first February executive order established "core principles" for regulating the financial system and requires the Treasury Department to review and report on key provisions of the Dodd-Frank financial reform act. Republicans had criticized the act, which was implemented in the aftermath of the Great Recession, for strangling financial flexibility and inhibiting economic growth.Through a series of three executive orders, Trump followed up on his campaign promise to crack down on what he had described as rampant crime in the US. He ordered Attorney General Jeff Sessions to create a Task Force on Crime Reduction and Public Safety and heralded stronger combating of transnational crime. Trump also called for new federal crime criteria to prevent violence against police. On February 9, Trump signed Executive Order 13775 reversing changes to the Justice Department's line of succession that President Obama had made mere days before leaving office. Trump had already side-stepped Obama's order when he removed and replaced acting Attorney General Sally Yates after she had refused to defend Trump's travel ban. Executive Order 13777, signed February 24, builds off of his previous January 30 order prioritizing massive deregulation across the federal government. The February order introduces Regulatory Reform Officers into federal agencies and creates reform task forces. Together, these bodies will advise on the "repeal, replacement or modification" of regulations perceived as prohibitive or ineffective. Trump began undoing environmental protections on two fronts. Firstly, he issued an executive order directing the Environmental Protection Agency to review a rule that empowers the federal government to protect waterways. Though unlikely to have immediate effects, the order could eventually weaken the 1972 Clean Water Act. Trump also signed a bill invalidating an Obama-era stream protection rule.Surronded in the Oval Office by leaders from historically black educational institutions, Trump signed Executive Order 13779 in order to "promote excellence and innovation" at HBCUs. Primary goals including increasing private-sector participation in the institutions, broadly improving HBCUs capabilities, improving the relationships between HBCUs and the federal government.In a two-page letter to US public schoos, the Trump administration revoked a controversial Obama-era federal directive allowing transgender students to use the bathroom of their choosing. The White House jusitified the action through a pending court case, despite the guidelines already being on hold. The letter did not lay out new guidelines, meaning states can choose their policies. On February 28 Trump signed a measure to block an Obama-era regulation that would have prevented about 75,000 people with mental disorders from purchasing firearms. In an effort to curb gun violence, the Obama administration asked the Social Security Administration to disclose information about people with certain mental illnesses to the gun background system. In the third week of February the Department of Homeland Security released Trump's plans to aggressively enforce deportation policies regardless of the severity of an immigrant's criminal history. The guidelines kicked off a nationwide crackdown on undocumented immigrants. Trump signed two bills promoting women in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). One required NASA to encourage young women to study STEM fields and pursue careers that will help advance science and space exploration. The second required the National Science Foundation to encourage its entrepreneurial programs to recruit and support women to work in the commercial world. Author: Cristina Burack