According to the Peilingwijzer poll, published Wednesday, far-right party leader Geert Wilders has fallen behind the conservative VVD party of Prime Minister Mark Rutte for the first time since November 2016.Anti-Islamic and euroskeptic Wilders is now on 15.7 percent, while Rutte's VVD leads him&nbsp;on 16.3 percent. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2XW2oCalls for mosque closuresWith its key campaign promises including a ban on Muslim immigrants, the closure of all mosques in the Netherlands&nbsp;and a Brexit-styled departure from the EU, the Party for Freedom has established a strong supporter base with Holland's anti-immigrant, anti-EU voters.Hate incitement convictionLaunching his election campaign last month, Wilders - who was convicted in December of inciting hatred - showed no sign of letting up his racist rhetoric, describing Holland's Moroccan population as "scum."Days into his campaign, however, Wilders - who is constantly escorted by his own personal bodyguards -&nbsp;announced that the PVV had suspended public events indefinitely. The decision followed the arrest of a law enforcement agent for leaking sensitive information to a criminal organization.Authorities, however said the right-wing politician's safety had not been compromised by the security breach."What we know up to now is that Wilders' safety was not in question," said Dutch police chief Akkerboom.The leader of the Alternative for Germany, Frauke Petry, said police could use guns as a last resort to prevent illegal border crossings, pointing out "that's the law." What began as a euroskeptic party has turned into an anti-establishment and anti-EU force, claiming up to 25 percent of votes in German state elections in March 2016 and taking second place in Chancellor Angela Merkel's home state.Many believe Brexit and Donald Trump's victory in the US presidential elections could give new impetus to France's National Front. Established in 1972 and now led by Marine Le Pen, who took over from her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, in 2011, the National Front is a nationalist party that uses populist rhetoric to promote its anti-immigration and anti-EU positions.The leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom, Geert Wilders, is one of Europe's most prominent right-wing politicians. He was convicted in December for asking a crowd in 2014 if they wanted more or fewer Moroccans in the country, but no penalty was imposed. His party is considered anti-EU and anti-Islam. It is leading polls ahead of next year's parliamentary elections and currently holds 15 seats.Nikos Michaloliakos is the head of Greece's neo-fascist party Golden Dawn. He was arrested in September 2013 along with dozens of other party members and charged with forming a criminal organization. Michaloliakos was released in July 2015. Golden Dawn won 18 seats in parliamentary elections in September 2016. The party holds anti-immigrant views and favors a defense agreement with Russia.Hungary's anti-immigration, populist and economic protectionist party Jobbik aspires to be in the government by 2018. Now Hungary's third-largest party, it won 20 percent of votes in the last elections held in 2014. It wants a referendum on EU membership. Jobbik also advocates criminalizing "sexual deviancy," submitting a bill targeting homosexuals in 2012. Jobbik is headed by Gabor Vona.After Trump's election, Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Akesson said in an interview with Swedish TV: "There is a movement in both Europe and the United States where the establishment is being challenged. It is clearly happening here as well." The Sweden Democrats call for restricting immigration, are against allowing Turkey to join the EU and want a referendum on EU membership. Norbert Hofer of Austria's nationalist Freedom Party lost the recent presidential runoff by a mere 30,000 votes, after being front-runner in the first round. Former Green party leader Alexander Van der Bellen won 50.3 percent of the vote, with Hofer gaining 49.7 percent. The Freedom Party's leader campaigns for the strengthening of the country's borders and limiting benefits for immigrants.The leader of the hard-right People's Party - Our Slovakia, Marian Kotleba, has said, "Even one immigrant is one too many." On another occasion, he called NATO a "criminal organization." This Slovak party favors leaving the EU as well as the eurozone. It won 8 percent of the vote in March 2016 elections, securing 14 seats in the country's 150-member parliament.Reshaping Europe's political mapScheduled to take place on March 15, the Dutch parliamentary election will mark the first of three elections among European Union founder members this year.Like the PVV, right-wing populist&nbsp;parties in both France and Germany are&nbsp;hoping that concerns over national security and immigration will help them to make electoral gains that could reshape Europe and its politics.However, even if Wilders were to claim election victory on March 15, the far-right leader is unlikely to be able to found a coalition. Almost all opposition parties have ruled out forming a coalition with him.ksb/jm (Reuters, AFP)