Korkut's second chance in the Bundesliga beginsKorkut has received his second chance to coach in the Bundesliga when Bayer Leverkusen appointed him as their replacement for the recently sacked Roger Schmidt. Now he has the tough task of steadying the ship at Leverkusen, who are coming off the back of&nbsp;a 6-2 loss to Dortmund."Above all is the result," Korkut told a press conference on Thursday. "We can talk a lot about tactics and ideas, but most important is reaching our goals. It doesn't matter if we play great football and lose. The club has their goals, and they need to be reached."Korkut's Leverkusen will host Bremen, who are on a run of three&nbsp;wins, and that momentum could make for a difficult first assignment for the newly appointed coach.&nbsp;Frankfurt hobble&nbsp;to Munich on the back of four straight lossesTheir&nbsp;trip to Munich comes at a very bad time for Eintracht Frankfurt. Once third in the table, Frankfurt have spiraled out of control in 2017. The&nbsp;loss to Freiburg was their fourth in a row in the league and they have scored just twice in seven league games this year.Eintracht Frankfurt blew a 1-0 lead against Freiburg last weekendSquad depth has been the main issue for coach Niko Kovac. Six of his players have had to serve suspensions in 2017, and Alexander Meier has still not bounced back from his illness. "If I have 18 healthy players on the team sheet, I am happy," Kovac told a press conference on Thursday.Bayern appear to have kicked into gear after scoring 19 goals in their last four games in all competitions, which does not give Frankfurt the best chance of avoiding their fifth-straight loss.&nbsp;Hertha try to contain red-hot AubameyangWith his hattrick against Benfica on Wednesday, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has now scored seven goals in his last three games. Hertha Berlin will have their work cut out on Saturday afternoon, with Christian Pulisic and Ousmane Dembele also impressing in the Champions League.Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang scored a hat trick against Benfica on WednesdayHertha's defense has remained strong during their midseason struggles, and they have shown an ability to limit Dortmund's attack this season - they held Thomas Tuchel's side to a 1-1 draw in October before forcing a penalty shootout in the last 16 of the German Cup. But behind the contributions of their star striker, Dortmund have been on a scoring run&nbsp;of late, which will make it tough for any team to stop them.&nbsp;Have Hamburg moved past their woes in Munich?Hamburg have bounced back well since the demoralizing 8-0 loss to Bayern. They forced extra time with Gladbach in the German Cup before conceding two penalties in the extra period, and they defeated Hertha for their third league win in five games.Albin Ekdal (middle) scored the only goal Hamburg needed last weekThey get another crack at Gladbach on Sunday as they try to climb out of the relegation zone. But the Foals are no strangers to total domination, having trounced Schalke 4-2 on Matchday 23.If Hamburg manage to get a result against them, it could mean that their troubles against Bayern were just an anomaly rather than the beginning of a downward spiral.&nbsp;Versatile attacks go head-to-head in FreiburgWhy only have one guy score when you can share the attacking wealth? Freiburg and Hoffenheim are the only two teams in the Bundesliga to have four players with five or more goals this season, and the versatility has helped both clubs rise to the top half of the table.Hoffenheim's Adam Szalai (left) has scored two braces in five games.The glaring difference between these two teams has been in defence - Freiburg have conceded 15 more goals than Hoffenheim this season. But Julian Nagelsmann's side have been letting in goals at a higher rate recently, conceding five in their last four games. The scoreline of this game could be as big as some of the ones we saw on Matchday 23.&nbsp;Bundesliga Matchday 24FridayLeverkusen vs. Bremen&nbsp; (20:30 CET)SaturdayBayern Munich vs. Eintracht Frankfurt (15:30 CET)Hertha Berlin vs. Dortmund Darmstadt vs. MainzFreiburg vs. HoffenheimLeipzig vs. WolfsburgIngolstadt vs. Cologne (18:30 CET)SundaySchalke vs. Augsburg (15:30 CET)Hamburg vs. Gladbach (17:30 CET)