The German football association (DFB) is widely expected to reschedule the German Cup quarterfinal match&nbsp;between the third-tier&nbsp;club and the Bundesliga giants for March 14. The SID news agency and the mass-circulation newspaper "Bild" reported on Wednesday that the DFB was to confirm this in the next few hours.There had already been speculation shortly after Tuesday evening's contest was called off that this would be the date, simply due to Dortmund's busy schedule - BVB play the second leg of their Champions League round-of-16 tie with Benfica next Wednesday. A March 14 game would mean that Lotte's third division matches on March 12 and March 15 would have to be rescheduled.SID also reported that the DFB intended to try to convince Lotte to agree to host the match&nbsp;at a neutral location, with the most likely possibilities being Bielefeld or Osnabr ck. Borussia Dortmund CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke called on Tuesday night for it&nbsp;to be played somewhere other than Lotte's Frimo Stadium."We need to consider whether it is worth the risk of&nbsp;trying (to play)&nbsp;here again," Watzke said. "It could all go wrong again in two weeks' time. At some point we will run out of possible dates."Sportfreunde Lotte's management, though,&nbsp;are thought to favor playing it&nbsp;at their home ground.Felix Brych (second from left) informs Dortmund CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke of his decision to call off the matchReferee Felix Brych called off Tuesday's match 45 minutes before he was to blow the whistle for the opening kickoff, after 15 minutes of heavy sleet had rendered the pitch soggy and muddy -&nbsp;and his estimation, unplayable. He explained that the state of the pitch would have posed a hazard to the health of the players, adding that officials from both clubs had agreed with his decision. Many fans, particularly from Dortmund, were unhappy with the late timing of the decision not to play.Regardless of when and where the quarterfinal match&nbsp;will take place, the draw for the semifinals will be made following Wednesday's matches between Hamburg and M nchengladbach, as well as Bayern and Schalke. One of the balls in the draw is to&nbsp;be labeled&nbsp;"Lotte/Dortmund." The semifinals are to be played on 25 and 26 April.