Zsch pe's defense attorney Mathias Grasel told the Munich higher regional court on Thursday that psychiatrist Joachim Bauer found Zsch pe to suffer from dependent personality disorder (DPD), one month after a different mental health expert found her to be of sound mind.The psychological condition, which is characterized by severe dependence on others and submissive behavior, fulfills the legal criteria needed to categorize Zsch pe as lacking criminal liability, Grasel argued.In his motion before the court, Grasel detailed the conditions of Zsch pe's personality disorder: "severe separation anxiety, feelings of helplessness and incompetence, a tendency to submit to the wishes of others, and a failure with respect to the demands of daily life."Zsch pe's defense attorney Grasel (right) tasked a pyschiatrist with reviewing her mental healthDetails of the evaluation The defense team commissioned Bauer to review Zsch pe's condition. In order to reach his conclusion, Bauer spent a total of 12 hours over multiple sessions observing and speaking with the accused. He summarized his findings in a 48-page report, which he will present in court next week.According to Grasel, Zsch pe shared details of her life that she previously had not shared. These included her relationship with her mother, as well as with extreme right-wing National Socialist Underground (NSU) accomplices Uwe Mundlos and Uwe B hnhart."Consistent severe physical abuse" by B hnhardt also played a role&nbsp;in Zsch pe's disorder, the attorney's motion said.&nbsp;A previous mental assessment found Zsch pe to be mentally soundMentally sound or not?The DPD diagnosis clashes with the findings of court-appointed&nbsp;psychiatric expert Henning Sass, who in January 2017 declared Zsch pe to be mentally sound and therefore fully criminally liable.He also said Zsch pe was inclined to commit actions similar to Mundlos and B hnhardt, who were accused of murdering ten individuals as part of the NSU.Mundlos and B hnhardt died in an apparent murder-suicide in 2011.Sass reached his conclusion through the basis of the trial's proceedings because Zsch pe refused to undergo a direct assessment.Doris Dierbach, the attorney for the NSU victims' family members, called for the prosecutor's motion to be dismissed. She argued that Sass had already determined Zsch pe's mental condition and highlighted that Bauer is not a forensic psychiatrist.The NSU trial opened in May 2013. The prosecution has alleged that as a member of the NSU, Zsch pe was involved in the murder of eight Turkish-Germans, a Greek migrant and a Greek police officer. She has admitted to charges of arson but denies participation in the murders.If convicted, Zsch pe faces life in prison.Four other junior NSU members face charges.&nbsp;For years, neo-Nazis of the right-wing organization National Socialist Underground (NSU) were killing people across Germany. The suspects: Uwe Mundlos, Uwe B hnhardt (center) and Beate Zsch pe. Their victims: eight people of Turkish origin, one Greek man and a German policewoman. Their motive: obvious xenophobia. Until 2011, the German public was not aware of the scope of their crimes.The murder spree was uncovered on November 4, 2011 when Mundlos and B hnhardt robbed a bank in the east German town of Eisenach. For the first time, they failed. Police officers surrounded the caravan in which the two men were holed up. A later investigation concluded that Mundlos first shot and killed B hnhardt, then set the caravan on fire and killed himself.Shortly after the death of B hnhardt and Mundlos there was an explosion at Fr hlingsstra e 26 in Zwickau, in the state of Saxony. Beate Zsch pe lived at that address together with the two bank robbers. Zsch pe allegedly set the house on fire to destroy evidence. Four days later, she turned herself in to the police. The terror suspect has been in pre-trial custody since that day.In the ruins of the Zwickau flat, police officers found a self-made video in which the terror cell claimed responsibility under the name of the NSU, the National-Socialist Underground. The 15-minute video shows crime scenes and pictures of the victims killed by the right-wing terrorist group between 2000 and 2007.Famous cartoon character The Pink Panther hosts the amateur video, which is full of slogans of hatred against people with an immigrant background and which mocks the murder victims. Before her arrest, Zsch pe allegedly sent out copies of the video in which the NSU claimed responsibility for the crimes.Until 2011, the term "d ner murders" was frequently used when reporting about the killings. Nothing was known about the connection between the individual cases, nor about the motive. There were rumors the victims were linked to the drug scene. But the NSU's video left no doubt. The term "d ner murders" was chosen as Germany's "Unwort des Jahres" (doublespeak of the year) in 2011."The findings made by our security authorities so far show no indication of a terrorist background, but of a criminal milieu," said German Interior Minister Otto Schily on June 10, 2004. A day earlier, a pipe bomb explosion in Cologne left 22 people injured and many shops damaged. In 2011, it became clear: the NSU s right-wing terrorists were also behind the Cologne bombing.On February 23, 2012, Germany commemorated the victims. At the ceremony at a Berlin concert hall, the focus was on the relatives of the victims. Semiya Simsek (right), the daughter of the murdered flower stand owner Enver Simsek, gave an emotional speech. German Chancellor Angela Merkel made an official apology to the victims and promised them that all questions would be answered.On November 4, 2012, exactly a year after the terror cell was uncovered, people in many German cities staged solidarity demonstrations against right-wing extremism. The protesters called for thorough investigations into the racially motivated murders - which in their view was not happening fast enough."Dortmund is a colorful, tolerant and welcoming town and opposes right-wing extremism!" This statement was made by mayor Ullrich Sierau at the unveiling of the memorial stone for NSU victim Mehmet Kubasik in September 2012. The memorial was set up just meters away from the kiosk in which Kubasik was killed on April 4, 2006. Author: Anna Peters / nh cmb/kl (dpa, AFP)