The militant "Islamic State" has claimed that the attacker behind the rampage outside Britain's Parliament was one of its "soldiers." Police named the man as 52-year-old, British-born Khalid Masood. (23.03.2017) People gathered at London's Trafalgar Square to commemorate the victims of Wednesday's attack. Four people were killed by a British-born attacker who ran a car into passers-by and stabbed a policeman at Westminster. (23.03.2017) UK Prime Minister Theresa May told Parliament that the London attack suspect was British-born and had been investigated by security forces. The "Islamic State" group later claimed the attacker as one of its "soldiers." (23.03.2017) The UK s top anti-terrorism officer Mark Rowley said Friday that nine people were in police custody after&nbsp;"significant arrests" overnight in central and northern England. One woman detained earlier was released on bail.Authorities say&nbsp;52-year-old Khalid Masood carried out&nbsp;Wednesday's attack on Westminster, which killed four people and wounded dozens more.Rowley told a press conference the&nbsp;man's birth name was Adrian Russell Ajao and appealed to anyone with information about him to come forward."There might be people out there who did have concerns about Masood but did not feel comfortable for whatever reason in passing those concerns to us," he&nbsp;said.Police probe motivationRowley told reporters police were trying to work out what the attacker's motive was, and&nbsp;whether other individuals had "encouraged, supported or directed him."The self-styled "Islamic State"&nbsp;group claimed responsibility for the attack on Thursday, saying Masood&nbsp;was one of its "soldiers."Police have carried out more than a dozen searches and seized&nbsp;some 2,700 items since the attack, including "massive amounts of computer data," Rowley added.Two people in critical conditionMasood plowed a car into pedestrians walking along the busy Westminster Bridge on Wednesday afternoon, killing three and injuring 50 before fatally stabbing a policeman outside&nbsp;the parliament building. He was then shot dead by another officer.The death toll rose to four late Thursday after a 75-year-old man identified as Leslie Rhodes&nbsp;died of his injuries in hospital. Two people remain in a critical condition, Rowley said,&nbsp;with a number of others still receiving treatment for serious injuries.&nbsp;Masood, a Muslim-convert who used a number of aliases,&nbsp;was born in Kent,&nbsp;southeastern England. Although he had shown up on the intelligence radar&nbsp;in previous anti-terrorism investigations, he was considered to pose little threat.Shortly before 15:00 UTC, multiple shots followed by screaming were reported outside London's Houses of Parliaments. Authorities rushed to the scene as the House of Commons went into lockdown. The first reports came in from political reporters barred from leaving the premises. A male attacker first ran down pedestrians with an SUV on Westminster Bridge, an area highly frequented by tourists. The vehicle then rammed into a gate near Big Ben.The knife-wielding assailant then fatally stabbed a police officer on Parliament's grounds. The attacker was subsequently shot and killed while authorities secured the area around the Palace of Westminster.Transport for London, greater London's public transport authority, diverted buses in the area of the attacks. People working in the area sought alternative routes home as traffic remained blocked at the end of the work day on Wednesday.International leaders offered their condolences following the attack. German Chancellor Angela Merkel reaffirmed Germany's support for the UK "in the struggle against all forms of terrorism." The Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon also expressed her sympathies as the Scottish Parliament canceled a debate on a second independence referendum.Individuals present in the affected area described sirens blaring and the drone of helicopters overhead. British media reported "catastrophic injuries" while police confirmed four individuals had been killed. Another 29 people were being treated in hospital for their injuries - seven of them were critically wounded.A few hours after the attack, police made eight arrests after conducting armed raids on six homes in London and the central city of Birmingham (pictured above). The raids were part of an investigation into the Westminster attacker.Metropolitan Police counterterrorism chief Mark Rowley told reporters that he believed the assailant "acted alone" and that he was "inspired by international terrorism." Prime Minister Theresa May later said the attacker was British-born and was known to authorities.The militant "Islamic State" (IS) group claimed responsibility for the attack later on Thursday, saying the attacker was one of its "soldiers," according to the IS Aamaq news agency. It was not immediately clear whether the attacker was directly connected to the group.Prime Minister May hailed the millions of people in London who went about their lives the day after the attack. "It is in these actions - millions of acts of normality - that we find the best response to terrorism," she said. The city will hold a candlelight vigil for the victims on Thursday evening.nm/kms (AFP, AP, Reuters)