The New England Patriots have cut right tackle Sebastian Vollmer, the American football team announced on their website. He missed the entire 2016 season with hip and shoulder injuries.Vollmer was due over $2 million (1.9 million euros)&nbsp;in guaranteed wages had the Patriots not released him. Multiple reports have suggested he will retire from the National Football League (NFL).The German lineman was drafted by New England in the second round of the 2009 NFL Draft after spending four years at the University of Houston. He was named in the Associated Press 2010 All-Pro second team and&nbsp;helped the Patriots to victory over the Seattle Seahawks in the 2015 Super Bowl.The 32-year-old made 88 regular-season appearances, including 80 starts, from 2008-2015 before the Patriots put him on the Physically Unable to Perform List in 2016. He also made 10 starts in the postseason, but did not participate in the Patriots' most recent championship run where they beat the Atlanta Falcons in the Super Bowl.Vollmer is one of four Germany-born players to win multiple Super Bowls.Devonta Freeman takes flight to register the first score of the night, putting Atlanta 7-0 up after 12 minutes. Atlanta would race into a 28-3 lead and seemed set for glory.The halftime show was performed by Lady Gaga. Her dazzling set wowed the audience, but there was even greater drama to follow in Houston...Down 28-3, the New England Patriots produced a rousing comeback. Three touchdowns and a field goal in regular time forced overtime for the first time in Super Bowl history.The Patriots eventually prevail courtesy of a James White touchdown, but the star of the show is quarterback Tom Brady once again. He becomes the first player to win five Super Bowls.The confetti flies as the Patriots are crowned Super Bowl winners again. Their 25-point comeback is the biggest in Super Bowl history, beating their own 10-point fightback in 2015.Tom Brady's wife Gisele B ndchen and daughter Vivian Brady punch the air in delight. Brady further cemented his status as one of the greatest NFL players of all time.