Members of European Parliament voted by a show of hands on Thursday to strip far-right French lawmaker and presidential candidate Marine Le Pen of her parliamentary immunity for tweeting&nbsp;graphic images of victims of the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) extremist group."I think the results are clear - a broad majority is backing this," said the EU lawmaker chairing the plenary session.Potential three-year jail sentenceThe lifting of the populist's parliamentary immunity- which is&nbsp;intended to protect EU lawmakers against intimidation attempts - now permits a Paris court to prosecute Le Pen for posting three images of IS brutality on Twitter in 2015. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2XHalHer tweets included a photo of James Foley, a US journalist who was decapitated by the militants.The offense&nbsp;being considered is "publishing violent images," which under certain circumstances can carry a penalty of three years in&nbsp;prison and a fine of 75,000 euros ($78,930.00).Election year pressureHead of the right-wing National Front (FN) party, Le Pen is currently the front-runner to win the first round France's presidential election.According to the latest opinion polls, however, Le Pen would likely lose in the May 7 run-off to either conservative Francois Fillon or independent liberal candidate Emmanuel Macron by some 20 percentage points.Le Pen isn't the only candidate to have been hit by scandal during the French election campaigns, however,&nbsp;with Fillon still refusing&nbsp;to pull out of the presidential election despite being summoned by magistrates over his&nbsp;"fake jobs" scandal.&nbsp;Macron quit as economy minister in August and launched his independent presidential bid in November. The 39-year-old centrist formed his own political movement, En Marche (Forward), and is seen as a reformer. He's never held elected office, but a December poll named him France's most popular politician. He's voiced admiration for German Chancellor Angela Merkel's refugee policy.The National Front leader has adopted a more moderate tone than her anti-Semitic father, party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen. But she still takes a hard line on immigration, saying children of irregular migrants should not have access to public education. She also wants France to withdraw from the eurozone and have a referendum on EU membership. It's predicted she'll advance to the second round. A surprise winner of the right-wing Republicans primaries, the socially conservative Fillon is seen to represent the interests of France's Catholic middle class. An admirer of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, he supports a liberal economic policy. Until Penelopegate struck, he was widely projected as the winner of a run-off against Le Pen. In a runoff against former French PM Manuel Valls in the Socialist primary, Hamon was the more left-wing choice of the two politicians. The 49-year-old supports a universal basic income and wants to reduce the traditional work week to 35 hours. He has also spoken in support of legalizing cannabis and increased investment in renewable energy. Author: Samantha Early ksb/sms (dpa, AFP, Reuters, AP)