The ivory trade is one of the main reasons why the elephant population is in decline. Around&nbsp;20,000 are killed by poachers&nbsp;in Africa every year.Animal rights groups and environmental campaigners have been working for years to find ways of halting the dramatic decrease in the number of elephants.Sustainable tourism is considered to be one of the main solutions, providing an alternative source of income to people in elephant regions. But the high prices still being paid for ivory on the black market are keeping illegal poaching alive.&nbsp;So if money is the reason for mass killings of elephants, could dollars also provide an incentive to stop poaching?This is what the World Wildlife Fund wanted to find out. The environmental organization &nbsp;conducted a study together with the universities of Vermont and Cambridge on the financial impact of illegal hunting on tourism.The results were impressive: The African tourism sector loses around $25 million every year due to elephant poaching alone."Poaching is not only an ecological catastrophe," said Christoph Heinrich, director of nature conservation at WWF Germany. "It also has a substantial economic disadvantage."Could you imagine a world without elephants? Too sad...Tourism against poachingSmuggling of wildlife&nbsp;is one of the world's largest illegal international trades, only exceeded by narcotics&nbsp;counterfeiting&nbsp;and human trafficking.This is key in understanding&nbsp;why it is&nbsp;so hard to combat elephant poaching. But far too little attention is paid to the economic benefits of elephant conservation. This motivated WWF to look at the benefits poached elephants would have delivered to African countries it they had stayed alive to attract&nbsp;tourism."Our results show these figures are substantial," the study reads.&nbsp;However, the study also highlights that the loss of $25 million pales into insignificance when illegal trade is taken into account. The annual value of ivory from poached African elephants on Chinese black markets was estimated at $597 million between 2010 and 2012.This clearly illustrates the economic challenge faced by&nbsp;elephant conservation, the authors say. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1JkruElephants in&nbsp;declineIn 2016, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) estimated that Africa's overall elephant population consisted of around 415,000, which represented the worst decline in 25 years.According to the WWF study, the increase in poaching across the African continent has reduced&nbsp;elephant populations by 60%. In Tanzania and Mozambique alone, tens of thousands of elephants have been poached over the last six years.The surge in poaching for ivory began nearly ten years ago and has been the worst Africa has experienced since the 1980s, said the IUCN.Despite an international ivory trade ban in 1989 under the&nbsp;Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), Asian markets still represent a major hub for ivory trafficking.Some researchers fear the recovery of &nbsp;particular species of elephants, such as Central Africa's forest elephants, may take several decades if it ever happens. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1IqB4A better investmentIn a hypothetical scenario, the researchers &nbsp;compared the amount lost to&nbsp;tourism through&nbsp;poaching with the money it would take to implement anti-poaching methods to protect elephants&nbsp;across most African savannah areas.The cost of&nbsp;protecting the elephants would be far&nbsp;lower than the losses caused by poaching. In most parts of the continent, the recovered losses would exceed the investment necessary to end illegal hunting.In many regions of western, southern and eastern Africa, the positive effect on the economy would be comparable to the overall investment in education or infrastructure.This&nbsp;optimistic equation would unfortunately not apply to Central Africa. On account of &nbsp;a very poorly developed tourism sector and badly weakened elephant populations, WWF regrettably admits that other ways would have to be found to fund the fight against &nbsp;poaching .The conservation experts stress that poaching affects societies as a whole, promoting violence and corruption as well as hindering the economic development of entire&nbsp;regions.The new economic argument could be the incentive needed to combat poaching in a world where so much depends on money.Demand for rhinoceros horn, mainly across Asia, is driving the species toward extinction. Despite international trade in rhino horn having been banned under CITES since 1977, only around 25,600 rhinos from all five species remain in the wild. In a controversial move, the king of Swaziland will propose to legalize international rhino horn trade at the wildlife conference in Johannesburg.Despite African elephant populations having experienced a catastrophic one-third decline from 2007 to 2015 due mainly to ivory trade, Zimbabwe and Namibia are proposing to legalize their ivory markets - in efforts to reduce demand. Since around 27,000 elephants are estimated to be killed by poachers each year, ivory trade will surely a high-profile discussion at CITES CoP17.The African lion is not yet considered a threatened species under CITES - however, some groups such as Humane Society International have proposed the species should get increased protection, as there may be as few as 20,000 wild lions left in Africa. This proposal is currently being opposed by numerous countries, including the European Union.Pangolins have the sad honor of being world's most trafficked wild mammal. Their scales are used in traditional medicine, mainly in China, and are a treasure for poachers. As all eight species of pangolins could be threatened with extinction, some CITES CoP17 participants support the transfer of all species from Appendix II to Appendix I, further restricting trade in the animal.Although colorful shells bring a fresh maritime feel to your home, this simple act might be contributing to the extinction of unusual marine invertebrates such as the chambered nautilus. These unique marine animals also have their place among the 62 proposals to be presented at CITES CoP17 - wildlife experts are seeking more protection for the huge snails.This astonishing bird has a helmet-like structure on its head that accounts for some 11 percent of its 3-kilogram (6.6-pound) weight. While the bird uses its beak in head-to-head combat with other males, humans use it as carving material. Asia's largest hornbill is already listed on Appendix I, but Indonesia is requesting greater protection of the species and further international cooperation.Plants are often given less attention when discussing wildlife trade - however, CoP17 is also tackling problems related to legal and illegal logging around the world, which threatens numerous tree species. For instance, commercial demand across Asia for rosewood - a very valuable timber - has fueled a cross-border criminal network - making this endangered species a topic at the CITES conference. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz