DW: Mr. Arnold, how has political pressure for more deportations affected you and your city of Schw bisch Gm nd?Richard Arnold: We've noticed that a real competition between the states has been taking place. For me, this is all too general and happening too quickly. At the moment, we have 213,000 asylum seekers who are obligated to leave the country and many of them who came here four years ago are well integrated. And now, the ones that are already integrated are supposed to leave. No difference is being made between the people. It can't go on like this.Are too many or too few refugees being deported now?The wrong ones are being deported. The ones being deported are the ones people can reach and they are easy to find because they live normal lives. It affects people who went to school here and who have obtained qualifications.Arnold is mayor of the city of Schw bisch Gm ndAmong them are a number of people who are truly integrated and are paying into state health insurance and pension plans. Not long ago, for example, a workman came to me who paints buildings and has a refugee from Nigeria working for him and this person has settled in wonderfully. Yesterday, he received the rejection letter for his asylum application. The company is losing one of its best workers. Yet he could continue living and working here.Do asylum laws allow for exceptions if the process has taken too long?No. Applicants can only be recognized as refugees if they have been politically persecuted. That is fine but people who are well integrated should be considered. We must be able to build bridges, even for the short term. After all, when the influx of refugees began, our municipalities and citizens were strongly urged to do everything possible to integrate the people. Now, the people who fit in our society are to be torn out. The decent ones should not be the losers.Do other cities and German states agree with your assessment?Yes, everyone involved in all different positions does, from Bavaria to Schleswig-Holstein. The problem is that the integrated people whose applications have been rejected often receive a formal notice asking them to leave the country within 30 days or even a week. They can lodge an appeal and they can sue but they are usually dismissed.What kind of clout do you have as a municipality?We have none. The only option that remains when all legal means have been exhausted is to take the case to a hardship commission or petitions committee at state parliament. Right now, the applications are piling up at hardship commissions across the country. It was supposed to be for exceptions but now it has become normal for those who are integrated.For example, we helped a Nigerian asylum applicant at the hardship commission. He completed an entire training program as a geriatric care worker and also a training program as a firefighter. There must be incentives for people who work here. How else can the people who have come here develop a positive attitude towards our country? There is no transition from asylum-seeker to immigrant. Sadly, an immigration law is missing.Protests against the deportation of asylum-seekers were held in MunichYou demand that more decisions be made locally because you know the affected people personally and you argue for what you call an "immigration traffic light." How would that work?It is like a stoplight with red, yellow and green lights. Applicants who are already integrated and who can at least partially support themselves financially would get a green light. If their asylum applications were rejected, then we, as municipalities, could say that they should nonetheless be allowed to stay. Then the sword of Damocles, i.e. deportation, would not be dangling over their heads. Anyone who has built up prospects and contributed to society should be rewarded for their efforts.Everyone else would have to leave. The system has been accepted by our citizens. Politically, it would be relatively easy to implement. It would complement existing integration laws. We must discuss this within my party. I am in touch with the minister of the interior of the state of Baden-W rttemberg and I am trying to convince him that we, the municipalities, be involved in asylum decisions.Richard Arnold (58) is a member of the conservative Christian Democrat Union (CDU). Since 2009, he has been the mayor of Schw bisch Gm nd, a city in the southwestern state of Baden-W rttemberg with a population of 60,000.The interview was conducted by Wolfgang Dick.A total of 722,370 first-time applicants filed requests for political asylum in Germany in 2016, according to the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees (BAMF). The number reflects a roughly 65 percent increase compared to the previous year, when the total number of new applications stood at 441,899.The number of follow-up applications, however, recorded a decline of 33.3 percent. In 2015, 34,750 second-chance asylum requests were filed with BAMF, whereas in 2016 the number fell to 23,175.Combined, the number of first-time and follow-up applications for 2016 stood at 745,545. In 2015, this number stood at 476,649. So, BAMF recorded a 56.4 percent net increase in the total number of asylum requests in 2016 compared with 2015.The highest number of requests in 2016 were filed by Syrian nationals. According to BAMF s report, people from the war-torn Middle Eastern state submitted 266,250 of the new applications (36.9 percent). Afghan nationals came in second, with 127,012 (17.6 percent), followed by Iraqis, who filed 96,116 asylum requests (13.3 percent) last year.People from Iran filed 26,426 applications (3.7 percent). Eritreans submitted 18,854 applications (2.6 percent). Albanians totaled 14,853 (2.1 percent), 14,484 people from Pakistan requested asylum (2 percent), and Nigerians submitted 12,709 applications (1.8 percent).Nearly three-quarters of the applications filed in 2016 came from people younger than 30 years old. People aged between 18 and 25 filed 196,853 asylum requests, or about 23.5 percent of the overall total, making them the largest age group. The number of applications for children under the age of 4 stood at 78,192 (10.8 percent).German authorities accepted 433,920 people of the 695,733 applications they decided on in 2016. The overall protection rate for all countries of origin amounted to 62.4 percent.Ranging from vandalism to arson, more than 900 attacks on refugee centers were recorded in Germany in 2016. The Federal Criminal Police Office reported that, out of the 921 recorded offenses, 857 were suspected to have had far-right motives. In 2015, 1,031 such offenses were recorded, 923 of which were suspected of having a far-right background. Author: Aasim Saleem