A defiant Republicans&nbsp;party candidate&nbsp;told a media conference&nbsp;on Wednesday that he would continue to campaign to be France's next president despite being called for by magistrates to be charged."I have not embezzled public funds. I entrusted some parliamentary work to my relatives because I knew I could rely on their support," Francois Fillon told reporters, referring to claims his wife - who also faces charges - and two of his children were paid for parliamentary work they did not complete.Fillon went on to accuse&nbsp;prosecutors of timing their summons to coincide&nbsp;with a March 17 deadline for parties to confirm their candidates ahead of France's&nbsp;two-round election in April and May."From the start, I have not been treated like anyone else facing the justice system," the 62-year-old said.Many expected Francois Fillon to be a shoo-in for the presidency. The former French prime minister easily won the conservative primary with 67 percent of the vote. But then Penelopegate hit. Weekly newspaper Canard Enchaine reported that Fillon's wife Penelope and two of his children had received close to one million euros in salaries from Fillon, paid by the state. Fillon's popularity tumbled.It is not illegal in France to hire family members as parliamentary assistants - provided they have real jobs. Fillon's wife was paid 830,000 euros ($900,000) as a parliamentary assistant for 15 years, working (or - as some have suggested - "working") for Fillon and his replacement in parliament. Police are currently investigating whether Penelope provided services for the salary she received. Reporters also revealed that Fillon paid his two oldest children 84.000 euros for working as assistants between 2005 and 2007. Fillon argued that he had hired Marie and Charles Fillon for their legal expertise though the two were still in law school when they had jobs with their father. Penelope was also employed at an art magazine from May 2012 to December 2013, where she was paid roughly 5,000 euros a month. The owner of the magazine had previously been recommended for France's highest honor, the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor, by then-prime minister Francois Fillon. Fillon has said that these two facts were unrelated. Fillon has repeatedly denied charges that he used "fake jobs" to enrich his family. He has said that he employed his wife and children because he trusted them and accused the media of running a smear campaign against him. Nevertheless, Penelopegate has severely damaged the campaign of the 62-year old, who has sold himself to French voters as an honest family man keen on cutting public spending. The accusations against Fillon are hardly the first of their kind in France. Ex-President Jacques Chirac was found guilty in 2011 of employing party members in "fake jobs" as mayor of Paris. Former president Nicolas Sarkozy is being investigated for illegal campaign financing, and presidential candidate Marine Le Pen is suspected of paying officials in her far-right party with EU funds. Author: Mara Bierbach Summons confirmedThe former prime minister confirmed he'd be summoned by magistrates."My lawyer has informed me that I will be summoned on March 15 by magistrates in order to be charged," he said, before going on to denounce the probe&nbsp;as having eliminated the presumption of innocence."I will not give in, I will not withdraw," said a visibly upset Fillon. "I will be there when democracy chooses the future of France."French media reported earlier in the day that Fillon had been summoned by magistrates investigating&nbsp;the so-called fake jobs scandal, where the politician is alleged to have paid his British-born wife, Penelope&nbsp;for official Senate duties she didn't perform.Paris' magistrates were appointed by financial prosecutors last week to look into the "fake jobs" case, following revelations by satirical newspaper "Le Canard enchaine" in January.Repeated denialsFillon has denied wrongdoing several times before, insisting his wife carried out genuine work as his parliamentary assistant. But he had earlier promised to step out of the presidential race if he was placed under formal investigation.Within two hours of his speech, his&nbsp;campaign manager Bruno Le Maire resigned, saying Fillon's u-turn had prompted the decision."I believe in keeping one's word. It is vital to the credibility of politics. It is a necessary quality to be able to calmly lead France's recovery efforts," Le Maire said in a statement on Twitter.Earlier on Wednesday, Fillon, who had at one stage been widely tipped to win the presidency, canceled a trip to a key agricultural fair in Paris without explanation, leading to speculation he may pull out of the race.The show is billed as a rite of passage for all hopefuls with eyes on the Elysee Palace due to the power of the agricultural community in France.Penelope Fillon and two of their five children, are alleged to have earned more than a million euros over several years, paid from public fundsConservatives conferA source close the&nbsp;Republicans party said Fillon held talks&nbsp;with senior members of the party on Wednesday. Just two weeks ago, the party had agreed to back his candidacy despite the furor.Several party allies backed his decision to stick with the troubled campaign, while rival centrist candidate Emmanuel Macron said it was important for investigators to their jobs.Far-left candidate&nbsp;Jean-Luc Melenchon tweeted his anger that Fillon was asking "citizens to&nbsp;vote to give him immunity. This is not the meaning of the election," he said.Later on Wednesday, Centrist party UDI also "suspended" its participation in Fillon's campaign, though the&nbsp;party's youth wing had already&nbsp;defected to&nbsp;Macron.Scandal-marred campaignAfter his selection by the Republicans, Fillon was initially the frontrunner to win the presidency.But his campaign has been rocked by the damaging allegations that his wife had received hundreds of thousands of euros over several years in the "fake jobs' scandal.Since then, two of his children have been implicated too, for allegedly holding temporary jobs while trainee lawyers.Support plummetedWhen the so-called "Penelopegate" scandal hit, Fillon's campaign hit the skids, and much of his support shifted to Macron, an independent, centrist candidate.Macron, together with far-right leader Marine Le Pen, are now most likely to proceed to the second round run-off of the presidential&nbsp;election on May 7.Fillon's scandal has spooked investors who fear that the anti-euro, anti-immigration candidate Le Pen now has&nbsp;a higher chance of becoming head of state.mm/sms (AFP, AP, Reuters)