Rebels in eastern Ukraine have seized control of 40 factories and coal mines. They also took over a major aid distribution center in the conflict-hit region. The latest Ukraine ceasefire pledge remains unfulfilled as observers fear worse violence to come in the spring. Children are terrified of going to school due to constant shelling. (28.02.2017) Hearings have begun at the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in Ukraine's suit against Russia. Kyiv claims Moscow employed terrorism in its Donbass region and has mistreated Crimea's minorities. (05.03.2017) Ukrainian security services (SBU) on Monday arrested 43 activists in the country's conflict-ravaged regions.The group of activists had launched a blockade in January, which effectively disrupted shipments of coal.Ukrainian nationalists and opposition lawmakers had enforced the blockade, claiming the coal helped fund rebel activities in the region."During an operation in Toretsk, Shtshebryiovka and Kudryumovka, members of the SBU discovered a group of armed men," the Ukrainian army told the country's division of Russia's Interfax news agency."They refused to surrender their weapons, which led to the arrest of 43 people," the military spokesman added.Despite warring parties battling for control of eastern Ukraine, both sides had unusually agreed that the blockade disrupted trade and threatened to cause power cuts.Many power plants in the area rely on Anthracite coal from rebel areas to keep running, especially during the winter season.Sanctions extendedSince conflict broke out in 2014, nearly 10,000 have been killed and more than 500,000 children affected by the fighting, according to UN figures.Moscow's illegal annexation of Crimea that year, partly in response to pro-European protests that unseated ex-President Viktor Yanukovych, fomented unrest in eastern Ukraine and prompted a pro-Russia insurgency.The EU on Monday extended sanctions against Russian and Ukrainians individuals for an addition six months after they were first introduced in the wake of the annexation.The European Council, a body formed of the bloc's political leaders, said it kept sanctions in place "over actions undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine."ls/bw(AFP, AP, dpa)Every evening, the shelling begins around sunset. The front lines near Donetsk see nightly mortar and machine gun fire as the conflict between the Ukrainian military and pro-Russian separatists rages on. Caught in the crossfire are many elderly civilians who are too impoverished to go elsewhere. Ivan Polansky, above, surveys the damage on his home in Zhovanka. Residents of Zhovanka in the so-called gray zone, a thin strip of land separating warring militaries, line up to see a visiting doctor. Medics hold pop-up clinics in the town once a week. "Each day, you are waiting for the shell to land on your house and you never know when it s going to come," said local resident Ludmila Studerikove. Zhovanka was once home to 1,000 people, but the number has dwindled to about 200 since the war began in mid-2014. It has been three months since residents have had electricity and gas. "Sometimes I m so scared that I lay in bed at night and just shake, Studerikove said. My husband stays by my side and holds my hand." Olexander Voroshkov, program coordinator for the regional charity SOS Kramatorsk, said residents continue to live in half-destroyed homes with leaky roofs, even through the winters, because rent in nearby Ukrainian cities has skyrocketed since the beginning of the conflict. "Rents in Kramatorsk are now similar to those in Kiev, but the salaries are much lower than in Kiev," Voroshkov said.Women line up to receive medicine and multivitamins in Zhovanka. Food and humanitarian supplies are delivered to the town by charity organizations, as crossing checkpoints sometimes requires people to wait more than a day in line. "We had everything; we had fresh air, nature. It was very nice here. Now we just have the cold," said local resident Vera Sharovarova.Vera Anoshyna, left, speaks with neighbors in Spartak, a town in what is now the Donetsk People s Republic (DNR). Anoshyna said she has done her best to adapt to the conflict. "If you don t have water, you find it," she said. "If you don t have electricity, you find a solution. But you never know where the next bomb will land."Svetlana Zavadenko stands before her home in Spartak. She was injured when the walls collapsed after several mortars exploded in her yard. Neighbors had to dig Zavadenko out of the rubble and she was sent to the hospital with six broken ribs and a ruptured liver. She smokes Minsk brand cigarettes and laughs when asked what she thinks about the war.Zavadenko recovered from her injuries and lives alone with several pets. Spartak has not had electricity, gas, or water services since 2014, so she uses a grill to cook her food. For firewood, she goes to an abandoned furniture factory nearby and collects plywood. "Last winter we thought [the war] would finish, but now, honestly, we lost hope," she said.Damage from shelling on the outskirts of Donetsk. Despite past failures in deescalating the war, a new ceasefire may be in sight after an October peace summit in Berlin, where Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said he was ready to end hostilities in eastern Ukraine and would withdraw troops from the region. Even if both sides agree on a ceasefire, they will face opposition from their militaries, who claim their sacrifices were too heavy to simply put down their weapons. "We lost too many soldiers to stop now," said Vladimir Parkhamovich, colonel of the 81st Airmobile Brigade in the Ukrainian military. "If they give us an order [to stop] we ll consider them traitors." Author: Diego Cupolo