Speaking to journalists, actor Reha Beyoglu - who plays an adult Erdogan up to the time when he is imprisoned over allegations of Islamist activity - dismissed suggestions the delayed release of "The Chief" ("Reis" in Turkish)&nbsp;had been adjusted to help the president win an April referendum.The reforms being weighed&nbsp;in the referendum would enable the president to appoint ministers and top state officials and dissolve parliament, declare emergency rule and issue decrees. It would also abolish the prime minister's role - traditionally Turkey's head of government - that Erdogan occupied for a decade, before becoming president and immediately pressing for a transition of powers to his new office.Since a failed coup last July about 40,000 people have been jailed pending trial and 100,000 public sector workers suspected of links to the coup plotters suspended or dismissed under a state of emergency.The film's premier on Sunday, Beyoglu&nbsp;said, had marked Erdogan's 63rd birthday.'Not propaganda'"This is not a propaganda film," Beyoglu said.&nbsp;"In order to win the popular vote on 16 April, the state secretary does&nbsp;not need any film."&nbsp;However, the film portrays the future politician favorably, to say the least. Scenes include the young football enthusiast scoring with an overhead kick and giving away money - given to him to buy a bicycle - to a poor friend. What's more, soap opera star Beyoglu made no secret of his personal admiration for&nbsp;Erdogan."Probably this big responsibility will be with me for the rest of my life," Beyoglu told Reuters.&nbsp;"Watching the screen are people who love him fanatically and I am one of those people."In an interview with German agency DPA, Beyoglu&nbsp;said that the role was the pinnacle of his career. "Is there anything bigger?"&nbsp; "I never thought in my life that I would ever play Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I am very, very happy.""Our president is like the piece which holds Muslim prayer beads together," he said at the film's premier, borrowing from one of&nbsp;Erdogan's own speeches&nbsp;after the failed coup. "If it breaks off, the beads will scatter."&nbsp;&nbsp;Hail the Chief"The Chief" was made by a little known company called Kafkasor Film Akademisi. It was not clear how much it cost to make, though some media reports put the figure at $8 million (7.5&nbsp;million euros).Hudaverdi Yavuz, the film's director, said he wanted to tell Erdogan's life story because it was "really interesting" and the film's title came from the name Erdogan has long been known by."When he got elected mayor of Istanbul, automatically people used the word 'Reis' (chief)&nbsp;... His childhood friends, his acquaintances, they call him that," he told the French news agency&nbsp;AFP.A blood covered resident of Istanbul stands near the Bosphorus Bridge. There were clashes between civilians and the army after the military had blocked the bridge. Government sources say that more than 260 people were killed in fighting during the coup attempt.Tanks drove through several cities in the night in a completely surprise move. The Turkish military announced its takeover. The tracked vehicles flattened cars in the streets of Istanbul and Ankara, turning the country into a war zone.After the bombing of parliament in Ankara, the building is in ruins. Fighter jets flew low over the capital and had the citizens panicking.The army not only closed the Bosphorus Bridge: it also occupied Taksim Square, a main transportation hub in Istanbul. The soldiers positioned themselves in front of the Republic Monument.Erdogan supporters also protested on the square. A showdown began when a soldier pointed his gun at a man. The army opened fire on the protesting crowd on the square.Shirts off their backs: After the failed coup attempt, rebel soldiers laid down their arms on the Bosporus Bridge and fled.After the armed forces had surrendered, soldiers tried to get on a bus to flee from the angry masses.President Tayyip Erdogan returned to Istanbul. Cheering crowds received him at the airport. Erdogan announced that the rebels would pay a heavy price.Erdogan supporters triumph and wave the Turkish flag after the army's withdrawal. The coup attempt has failed.Bizarre souvenir: A mother took a picture of her daughter on top of a tank. The tank on the Bosphorus Bridge was surrounded by Turkish police. Author: Astrid Prange / gro To die like men"A person dies once. If we are going to die, let's die like men," Erdogan, then mayor of Istanbul, declares at one point in the film - a line he has used in speeches&nbsp;and which drew loud applause during the premiere.The film depicts an 11-year-old Erdogan seeking to prove himself to his father and help those in his community in Istanbul's Kasimpasa district.&nbsp;The last scene shows Erdogan looking with defiance as the narrator says a "brave hero" will grow up honorable against such oppression.Turkish actress Ozlem Balci plays his wife Emine while child actor Batuhan Isik Gurel plays Erdogan as a boy. The movie was filmed in Istanbul and Cyprus over six weeks. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2XWMUjbh/msh (AFP, Reuters, dpa)