Elections in the Gaza Strip have been postponed indefinitely, a Palestinian official said. But Hamas has criticized the announcement of fresh elections, saying it 'serves Fatah's political interests.' (28.02.2017) Israel's military has launched a series of air attacks on Palestinian territory in retaliation for an earlier rocket attack. The violence has jogged memories of the 50-day war between Israel and Hamas militants in 2014. (27.02.2017) The governing militant group has tapped a leading military figure to head Hamas' political office in Gaza. Analysts have described the new political leader as the "most radical and extreme line of Hamas." (13.02.2017) With thousands of new settlement homes announced and mixed signals from Donald Trump's White House, is the two-state solution doomed? Conflict Zone's Tim Sebastian spoke to PLO executive member Hanan Ashrawi in Ramallah. (08.02.2017) A regional UN source said on Friday the organization was frustrated about the impact of last weekend's border closure between Gaza and Israel on aid work and its attempts to negotiate the Palestinian-Israeli peace process.The UN Special Coordinator for the Middle East peace process (UNSCO) will not send staff to Gaza until further notice, the source told the news agency Agence France-Presse. The border restrictions also affect UNSCO's envoy Nickolay Mladenov.Mysterious killingThe Islamic militant group Hamas, which runs the Gaza Strip, shut the crossing after blaming the Jewish state for the assassination of a senior military figure near his home last Friday. Israel has not commented on the killing.Officials said restrictions at Erez, which is the only pedestrian land border between Israel and Gaza, would remain in place until further notice.Movement in and out of Gaza is already tightly restricted by Israel and Egypt, who have maintained a blockade on the coastal territory since Hamas took power a decade ago.Although the crossing was partially reopened a day later, men between 18 and 45 are still prevented from leaving the enclave, as a manhunt for Faqha's killer continues.Half a dozen international aid workers were also stopped at the border, which led more than 100 NGOs and rights groups to demand the crossing urgently be reopened.Around two thirds of Gaza's residents rely on aid to survive, according to UN figures.Despite Israel's own blockade, it does grant hundreds of permits for medical, educational, business and other reasons per week.Impact on residents feltThe World Health Organization said on Thursday that 79 patients have missed medical appointments, meaning they will have to reapply for hard-to-get travel permits from Israel.One resident, Abu Aassi, said that he ended up missing an appointment that had taken him three weeks to wangle."I totally understand the situation, but there also has to be a solution to the situation," he appealed to Hamas.Other Gaza residents have complained after some 3,000 fishermen were banned from going to sea, leaving local shops without supplies."The fish market is almost empty, and this is because of the closure of the sea," said Zakareya Bakker, a 45-year-old fisherman.The leader of a local business association says he was in contact with authorities to try to improve daily life while the blockade remains in place.United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on 22 November 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders.This picture, taken on March 26 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the peace treaty in Washington. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. This war eventually led to the peace talks which lasted 12 days and resulted in two agreements.The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions, which involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians, who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time, achieved little, although it did create the framework for later talks.Negotiations, which took place in Norway, between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) resulted in the first deal between the two sides, the Oslo Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period.US President, Bill Clinton, invited Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, and PLO Chairman, Yasser Arafat, to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees, and Jerusalem. Despite more detailed negotiations than ever before, no agreement was reached. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising.The Camp David negotiations were followed by meetings in Washington, then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt. They too were without results. Later, the Arab Peace Initiative was proposed in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to the lines of June 1967, so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries agreed to recognize Israel.The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. In June 2003, Prime Minister Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart Mahmoud Abbas, accepted the road map, with the Security Council also approving it in November. The timetable called for the final agreement to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented.In 2007, US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to re-launch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Olmert, and Palestinian Authority s President, Mahmoud Abbas, took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008.In 2010, special US Envoy George Mitchell s efforts led to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreeing to and implementing a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to re-launch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock.A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence, and eventually led to the launch of the Israeli military operation, Protective Edge, which ended with a ceasefire on 26 August 2014.Envoys from over 70 countries have gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu has slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives are attending the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said at the opening of the event. Author: Aasim Saleem mm/kl (AFP, AP, dpa)