Presenting five options to the European Parliament on Wednesday, Juncker said it was time for European Union members to once again become "pioneers" to carve out a new future for the EU at 27, referring to the bloc's 27 remaining members after the UK withdraws.His speech comes just weeks before British Prime Minister Theresa May is due to trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, to begin the country's official divorce proceedings from the EU.The former Luxembourg prime minister insisted&nbsp;that "as painful as Brexit will be, it will not stop the EU as it moves to the future."Five pathwaysJuncker laid out five "pathways to unity" for EU leaders to consider at a special summit in Rome on March 25 to mark the 60th anniversary of the bloc's founding treaty.Juncker presenting his "White Paper" on the future of Europe to Euro MPs on WednesdayThey range from reducing the EU to just a single market, to creating a "multi-speed" Europe in which like-minded countries can push on with plans even when others disagree.The head of the EU's executive commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, has suggested a dramatic restructuring of the bloc with "core" members and "orbit" nations. These outliers could include the UK and Turkey, he said. (24.02.2017) Is there anything that can still be done to prevent Brexit? Yes, Lord Richard Newby, a passionate pro-European, tells DW, as the Brexit bill is debated in the House of Lords. (20.02.2017) European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has warned the UK it cannot negotiate bilateral trade deals in the period before it leaves the EU. London, meanwhile, is eyeing up China with talk of a 'golden era.' (17.02.2017) In the three months following the UK's EU referendum, hate crime sky-rocketed in parts of Britain. For one British-German family in Leipzig, their future remains uncertain on both sides of the English Channel. (15.02.2017) With the Brexit bill debate under way, UK PM Theresa May has warned parliament against delaying Brexit talks. In an unusual move, May also attended the House of Lords, where she sat on the steps of the queen's throne. (20.02.2017) Another option&nbsp;would see Brussels pull back from many areas, including regional development, health, employment and social policy. Alternatively, the bloc could&nbsp;maintain the status quo, Juncker said, with limited progress on strengthening the euro single currency and limited defense cooperation.The fifth option would involve a&nbsp;more federalist approach, "sharing more power, resources and decision-making across the board."During his speech, Juncker hit out at "permanent Brussels bashing" by populist politicians all over the bloc, insisting that the EU was not&nbsp;responsible for each country's problems.But he conceded that Brussels had often been put on a pedestal, and had failed&nbsp;to keep many of its ambitious&nbsp;promises, for example, addressing the&nbsp;bloc's high unemployment rate.Looking to the future, Juncker said: "Our task will be to say clearly what Europe can and cannot do."He called for EU states to respond to his suggestions by the end of the year, and decide on a course of action by the European Parliament elections in June 2019.Possible Brexit delayWhile Juncker was preparing for the imminent Brexit trigger, British Prime Minister Theresa May was facing her first parliamentary defeat on legislation which allows her to begin EU exit talks following last year's referendum.The upper House of Lords was expected to back an amendment to protect the rights of EU citizens residing in Britain, in a vote late on Wednesday.A view of "The Flamingo" amusement arcade in Great Yarmouth. 72% of people in this town on England's east coast voted to leave the European Union during the referendum in June 2016. The area has the third lowest percentage of university educated residents and among the highest number of working class voters.The five most eurosceptic areas are all on Britain's east coast, including Great Yarmouth in Norfolk. One reason might be a rise in immigration, as well as a general decline in the standard of living, which has led to huge frustrations in these areas in recent years.A UKIP sticker in a car's rear window in Great Yarmouth. The seaside resort is situated some 140 miles (200 km) northeast of London.The borough of Hartlepool voted to leave the European Union by 69.6%. There was a similar result in much of the Britain's northeast, including in cities such as Sunderland and Stanley.A row of housing in Stanley, County Durham. The former colliery town is one of the cheapest places to buy a house in the UK. Durham voted to leave the European Union by 57.5%. In the whole northeast, Newcastle was the only borough to vote Remain, though by a narrow margin. This was most likely due to its large student population and dependency on EU funding. The former Joplings Department Store stands derelict. Plans to convert the building into a designer hotel are currently underway. A report by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation in 2016 named Sunderland one of the most declining cities in the UK. It also says that ten of the UK s top 12 struggling cities are based in the north. No city in the south featured in the top 12, or even 24, of the index.A mural of local football hero, Raich Carter, embellishes the wall of the Blue Bell Pub in Hendon, his former area in Sunderland. Wearmouth Colliery, which was a major North Sea coal mine, was the largest mine in Sunderland. Also one of the most important mines in northeast England, it was closed at the end of 1993. The former mine is now the site of Sunderland AFC s Stadium of Light. Author: Nadine Berghausen The amendment, brought by the main opposition Labour party, calls on the government to&nbsp;guarantee that EU citizens will keep and continue to acquire residency rights once formal Brexit negotiations begin.By leaving the EU, Britain will be withdrawing from the bloc's policy of free movement of citizens among member states. That leaves three million EU nationals in Britain, and one&nbsp;million Britons living in other member countries, in limbo.If the amendment is approved, the legislation will have to go back to Britain's lower House of Commons for a second vote.The delay could potentially threaten the government's timetable for starting Brexit talks with Brussels, analysts say.The bill had been expected to be passed on March 7, allowing May to trigger Article 50 of the EU's Lisbon Treaty, which sets the rules for a nation negotiating its exit from the EU, by the end of March.mm/jm (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)