A district court in the southern German city of&nbsp;W rzburg ruled on Tuesday that social media giant&nbsp;Facebook is not obliged to seek and delete posts falsely linking&nbsp;Syrian refugee, Anas Modamani&nbsp;to crimes committed by other migrants."Claim is rejected, Facebook wins in front of W rzburg regional court,"&nbsp;Modamani's Bavarian lawyer Chan-jo Jun wrote on Facebook.The plaintiff, Anas Modamani, was one of several asylum seekers who took selfies with&nbsp;Chancellor Angela Merkel at the height of the refugee crisis in 2015&nbsp;when she visited the Berlin refugee shelter where the young newcomer was housed.&nbsp;While in a refugee camp in Berlin Spandau, Anas Modamani heard that the German Chancellor Angela Merkel was coming for a visit and would be talking to refugees. The 19-year-old Syrian, who is quite fond of social media, went to take a selfie. He was hoping for the selfie to inspire a real change in his life..When Modamani's house in Damascus was bombed, he fled with his parents and siblings to a smaller city called Garia. That is when Anas fled for Europe in the hope that his family could join him there, once he had made it. He first traveled to Lebanon and from there to Turkey and then on to Greece.Anas almost died on the way. In order to get to Greece from Turkey he had to travel in a rubber boat, like most refugees. Anas says the boat was overcrowded and eventually capsized and he almost drowned.From Greece Anas traveled by foot to Macedonia. He continued to Hungary and Austria. In September 2015, he reached his final destination: Munich. Once in Germany, he decided he wants to move to Berlin. He has been living there ever since.Upon arrival to Berlin, Anas spent entire days in front of the LaGeSo, a refugee center in the city. The 19-year-old says that the situation at the LaGeSo was difficult, especially during the winter. Eventually he was sent to the refugee center in Berlin Spandau. He wanted to raise awareness to his situation as a refugee and a selfie with Merkel seemed like the perfect chance to do exactly that.Anas says that the selfie with Chancellor Merkel was a life-changer for him. He got a lot of media attention after the photo was published online, and that is how his German foster family became aware of him. He has been living with them for 2 months now. They have been supporting him ever since he became a member of their family.Since living with the Meeuw's Anas is happier than ever before. He is doing a German language course, has made a lot of friends and is doing a lot of cultural activities. He graduated high school in Syria and wants to pursue higher studies in Germany. But his main aim right now is to be officially granted asylum and to be able to bring his family to Germany as well.Anas is hoping for a good and safe life in Germany. But he is worried about the current sentiment towards refugees in the country. He thinks that the negative mood might escalate and have an impact on the laws in regard to refugees. Anas fears that he might not be granted asylum after all, thus ending his dream of bringing his family to Germany. Author: Rachel Baig His photos went viral&nbsp;on social media almost instantaneously and even helped him find his German foster family.Within a few months, however, his&nbsp;started to appear&nbsp;in conjunction with information about crimes committed by&nbsp;other migrants including the deadly Berlin truck attack in December.'Selfie with a terrorist'Fake news content from earlier last year also showed the 19-year-old refugee's image in connection with&nbsp;the Brussels terrorist attacks, claiming that he was one of the pepetrators and had just pretended to be a refugee, with some sites insinuating Merkel took "a selfie with a terrorist.""Whenever there's a refugee-related incident, he's trotted out as Merkel's model refugee, and the crimes are blamed on him," Jun said prior to Tuesday's verdict.No one should have to put up with that, so now "Modamani is fighting back," the IT attorney added, who has filed various&nbsp;legal complaints against the US social networking company, including demands that Facebook comply with Germany's hate speech laws.Syrian refugee Anas Modamani is now taking German language courses and working in a fast food restaurantThreats against lawyerModamani's lawyer&nbsp;Chan-jo Jun told Deutsche Welle he had recieved threats when defending the case."When you fight against Facebook, we found out, you have to take into account that Facebook will attack you personally, and I also learned that there are threats," he said."There were serious threats, people asked me to discontnue my activities against Facebook or else there would be harm done to me or my family."He said Facebook had no incentive to remove photos which were driving traffic to the network.&nbsp;'Fake news'Facebook and other web giants pledged in December 2015 to examine and remove within 24 hours any hateful comments spreading online in Germany, in particular over the mass influx of 890,000 migrants that year.German Justice Minister Heiko Maas, who has been negotiating with social network chiefs, has also warned that Facebook and others could be punished if they do not comply with German law.Facebook was also attacked for its role in the spread of fake news, leading up to November's US presidential election.&nbsp;As a result, the&nbsp;company announced that&nbsp;it would introduce measures to take down "unambiguously wrong reports" being shared on its platform.It said it would offer a simpler reporting process for users to flag suspected fake news, display warnings next to statements identified as false by independent fact-checking organisations, and cut off advertising revenue to fake news sites. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2VnME &nbsp;