It is among the most famous album covers ever made: "Sgt. Peppers Lonely Heart Club Band" from 1967. It shows the four Beatles in colorful made-up uniforms, surrounded by 70 prominent personalities, from Karl Marx to Marilyn Monroe, from Edgar Ellen Poe to Albert Einstein. All these famous people are said to have influenced the band and their music.Blake's ensembleThe creator of this artwork is the British artist Peter Blake, along with his wife Jann Haworth, the gallery owner Robert Fraser and the photographer Michael Cooper. Blake prepared life-size cardboard cut-outs and grouped the figures around the real Beatles in the uniforms. The setup was then photographed by Michael Cooper.The Beatles selected the celebrities themselves. They asked those&nbsp;who were still living if they agreed to be included on the cover, and not all of them did. The record label rejected John Lennon's wish to include Adolf Hitler and Jesus on the cover, considering it too controversial. The band did not include Elvis Presley either, claiming he was "too important and far above the rest to even mention," McCartney once said.&nbsp;Fake moustaches and stand-up cut-outsThe album's inner sleeve was also designed by Peter Blake. As a bonus gift, it included a postcard portrait of Sgt. Pepper, a fake moustache, two sets of sergeant stripes and a stand-up cut-out of the Beatles in their uniforms to allow everyone to become a member of the Lonely Hearts' Club Band.The cult cover's numerous details and cultural references still provide&nbsp;material for speculation and interpretation. Click through the picture galleries above and below to discover more album covers designed by famous artists.In 1984, the Scorpions released their album "Love at First Sting," which cemented their international popularity. Its erotic cover photo was shot by the legendary Helmut Newton. It was their most successful record in the US and reached sixth spot in the Billboard charts - but with another cover. After a complaint by Wal-Mart, it was replaced with a less controversial photo of the band members.Despite his well publicized drug addictions, Pete Doherty, the frontman of Babyshambles, is also an exceptionally talented musician. The cover of the band's third album was designed by none other than the British artist and Turner Prize winner Damien Hirst. The artwork builds on a photo shot by rock photographer Pennie Smith.Minimalist design, huge success: Although the original name of this album is "The Beatles," it became known as "The White Album" because of its special cover - a plain white image. Famous Pop Art artist Richard Hamilton met The Beatles in the 60s and was commissioned to design the artwork for this milestone in music history. He allegedly got paid $316 for the job.Everyone who once used to be a little punk knows this cover by The Sex Pistols. The title "Never Mind the Bollocks, Here's the Sex Pistols" perfectly shows the band's attitude - pure provocation. While their outfit was designed by Vivienne Westwood, the cover for their only studio album was done by an artist with a similar anarchistic attitude, Jamie Reid.This record from 1988 was Sonic Youth's breakthrough - and its iconic artwork may have contributed to its success. "Kerze" is a photo-realistic painting of a candle by the famous contemporary artist Gerhard Richter. The members of the influential rock band are said to be big fans of the German painter. Author: Antje Binder / rk