German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yucel has been jailed in Turkey pending trial on charges of propaganda in support of a terrorist organization. Politicians in Germany are outraged. Protesters are taking to the streets. (28.02.2017) Turkey is undergoing massive changes under President Erdogan. Pressure is being exerted on people who criticize the government. The country is isolating itself politically, says DW's Alexander Kudascheff. The Venice Commission, an advisory body of constitutional law experts, has described a "dramatic decline in democratic order" in Turkey, the German newspaper "S ddeutsche Zeitung" reported on Wednesday.The Commission, which advises the Council of Europe, one of the continent's human rights bodies separate from the European Union, reported that the proposed changes to the constitution in Turkey place the country "on the road to an autocracy and a one-person regime," according to the newspaper.In January, Turkey's parliament approved&nbsp;a series of constitutional amendments approved by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan that would transform the political order into an executive-style presidential system, effectively widening the scope of powers of the position.The parliament's approval paves the way for a nationwide referendum on the amendments, which would give the president, a traditionally more ceremonial role, the power to dismiss ministers and parliament, issues decrees, declare emergency rule and appoint figures to key positions, including the judiciary.It would also allow the president to be a member of a political party, which is currently prohibited under the constitution as the presidency is expected to exercise impartiality.Opposition parties have voiced concern that centralizing power in the presidency will fuel authoritarianism in the country."The state will be degraded to a one political party and that political party will be turned into the state's party. That is&nbsp;dangerous," said Turkish ex-Foreign Minister Deniz Baykal of the Republican People's Party (CHP). Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2XWMU'Worst crisis in a generation'The Venice Commission criticized Ankara's decision to push through constitutional changes during a state of emergency, saying the "severe restrictions" of political freedoms jeopardize the necessary framework for such pivotal modifications to the law.A failed coup in July 2016 prompted Turkish authorities to declare a state of emergency, which has witnessed a crackdown on freedoms of expression, association and assembly.Turkey has come under heavy criticism in Germany after the arrest of German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yucel. He is pending trial on charges of supporting a terrorist organization.More than 43,000 soldiers, police officers, judges and teachers have been arrested for suspected involvement in the failed coup."With hundreds of thousands of people dismissed or detained without due process, an independent media silenced and Kurdish opposition members of parliament in jail, Turkey has been plunged into its worst crisis in a generation," said Hugh Williamson, Human Rights Watch's Europe and Central Asia director, in January.A blood covered resident of Istanbul stands near the Bosporus Bridge. There were clashes between civilians and the army after the military had blocked the bridge. Government sources say that more than 260 people were killed in fighting during the coup attempt.Tanks drove through several cities in the night in a completely surprise move. The Turkish military announced its takeover. The tracked vehicles flattened cars in the streets of Istanbul and Ankara, turning the country into a war zone.After the bombing of parliament in Ankara, the building is in ruins. Fighter jets flew low over the capital and had the citizens panicking.The army not only closed the Bosporus Bridge: it also occupied Taksim Square, a main transportation hub in Istanbul. The soldiers positioned themselves in front of the Republic Monument.Erdogan supporters also protested on the square. A showdown began when a soldier pointed his gun at a man. The army opened fire on the protesting crowd on the square.Shirts off their backs: After the failed coup attempt, rebel soldiers laid down their arms on the Bosporus Bridge and fled.After the armed forces had surrendered, soldiers tried to get on a bus to flee from the angry masses.President Tayyip Erdogan returned to Istanbul. Cheering crowds received him at the airport. Erdogan announced that the rebels would pay a heavy price.Erdogan supporters triumph and wave the Turkish flag after the army's withdrawal. The coup attempt has failed.Bizarre souvenir: A mother took a picture of her daughter on top of a tank. The tank on the Bosphorus Bridge was surrounded by Turkish police. Author: Astrid Prange / gro ls/sms (SZ, dpa, epd)