The German National Audit Office's (BRH) critical audit report described extensive shortfalls in both the execution and the financial management of entry level German courses provided to refugees since the end of 2015, a highpoint of the refugee crisis.German radio broadcaster NDR reported details of the&nbsp;review on Tuesday.The auditors criticized the Labor agency (BA) for&nbsp;insufficient monitoring, poor learning materials and error-ridden invoices.On NDR's "Info" program,&nbsp;BRH president Kay Scheller upbraided the labor agency for their "problematic" lack of specifications when it came to monitoring."Without them, their non-fulfillment cannot be retrospectively criticized," Scheller pointed out.The Labor agency tried to attract the maximum number of educational providersToo short to handleThe BA defended itself against the BRH's criticism, arguing in its response to an NDR statement request that any shortcomings were due to the short, two-month notice the agency had received before the start deadline."In order to attract the largest number of educational providers possible, firm specifications relating to content, method, implementation, and teaching qualification requirements were forgone."Millions of euros 'missed the mark'In particular, the BRH accused the BA&nbsp;of poorly managing the up to 400 million euros provided for the courses. According to NDR, the audit document alleged "that a large part of the implemented funds de-facto missed the mark."The BRH also found inconsistencies in financial accounts. Both grants and invoices were duplicated, the BRH report detailed, though the labor agency reclaimed the doubled funds in certain cases.The audit stated children's courses were counted in calculations, despite not meeting the outlined course aimsBabies as course participantsA further criticism related to how the BA tallied total course participants. Though the provision of entry-level German language courses was aimed at providing "active labor market support," the BA counted language courses for children up to 13 years of age.These courses did not have the goal of "conveying the German language to infants and children," the BA stated in their report.A new language and alphabet are among the chief challenges awaiting asylum seekers arriving in Germany. Most need help, at least to get started. The good news on this day, however, is that they can leave their satchels, their exercise books, and even their teachers behind - it's time to hit the streets and learn proactively.The ACB Lingua language school's new "Integration Course" is aimed at recent arrivals. The school sent students on a "treasure hunt" to teach them about Bonn, and to get students to try out some German with strangers. Task 1: "Go to the market - find this stall - what types of fruit and vegetables does it sell?"Do you know the German for "pineapple?" While French and Italian-speakers have no excuse for getting the wrong answer, the students, most of whom speak Arabic, had a harder time. Thankfully clues abound! The team DW accompanied seemed keen for bonus points; they noted down prices, too, though that information was not required.Students were urged not to use their phones and to ask people in German for directions and information instead. However, on finding a passer-by who spoke both German and Arabic, the temptation was too great. Bassam (holding the paper) was kind enough to talk the team through several sentences they couldn't understand.Ludwig van Beethoven is arguably Bonn's most famous native. The house where he was born, near the city-center marketplace, serves as a small museum. Radwan Ajouz and his son Ali, originally from Aleppo in Syria, work on their next task. They find magic number: 1770.Bonus points were on offer for groups that completed the treasure hunt the fastest - with competitors keeping a keen eye on the clock. Still, within around two hours, the tour took them to a string of places they're likely to visit again. One question asked them to find out and note down the opening hours of Bonn's foreign nationals' office (Ausl nderamt)."Go to Friedensplatz," the team's instructions say, pointing them to another major square in central Bonn. "What is the final destination for bus number 608, and when will the next one arrive?" The 608 also stops fairly close to the Paulus-Heim in Bonn - a former old people's home converted into a refugee shelter, where many in the class live.Next stop: the city library. There, students should find books in Arabic, Persian or Kurdish, and ask for information on what paperwork they need to borrow books. However, on entry, our reporter was distracted by the sight of the class' teachers chatting over coffee - while their charges did all the hard graft! One of them proudly scrolls through photos of other recent class outings."Sit down somewhere," and write a postcard, the class was told, nearing the end of their assignment. "Go to the main post office, buy a stamp and send the postcard. Keep your receipt for the stamp." Another means of communication unlocked - though the task of buying the right stamp for a postcard was a challenge.This was a longer lesson than usual - with some teams needing more time than others. Early finishers, though, had a game of Pictionary awaiting them: draw something on the board, and whoever names it first (in German, of course!) gets the pen. This game showed quite a gulf between the students; some couldn't contribute, the more advanced were even getting the right genders for the nouns.ACB Lingua's Alev Eris v-Reinke had laid on rewards for the groups who scored best on her fact-finding mission around the heart of Bonn. Our team didn't quite make the top three - quite possibly because they were handicapped by a chatty reporter, who was also under orders not to help.A surprise to end the day: a bonus prize does go to Radwan Ajouz after all, as the oldest competitor to finish the challenge. Ajouz was all smiles throughout the exercise, shouting "Foto! Foto!" (photo) at all and sundry on DW's behalf, after realizing our need to ask permission. His wife and four of his children are still in Lebanon, having fled Syria. Author: Mark Hallam cmb/rc (AFP, epd, KNA)