"A Dramatic Rise in Crimes Perpetrated by Foreigners": This report has been floating around on social media platforms for a while especially since the fall of 2015, when large numbers of refugees arrived in Germany. Since that time, fake reports on criminal foreigners have become increasingly popular. And the slanders seem to gain credence and incite increasing anger as they are passed around social media sites.The website hoaxmap.org illustrates the tales that are being spun about refugees. The site collects fake reports, analyzes their validity and, when needed, corrects them.Click here for our special report on fake newsThe 'individual case' as exampleThe "Einzelfall Map" (Individual Cases Map) uses Google Maps to chart instances its operators claim can be corroborated by eyewitness accounts or official police statistics. It went online following the sexual assaults in Cologne on New Year's Eve 2016. There is no way of knowing who is actually behind the site, as it is operated from abroad.Mats Sch nauer, a journalist and author at the website uebermedien.de, is critical of the "Einzelfall Map" approach, saying that it is not serious in the least. Sch nauer and his team randomly selected 600 of the 10,000 cases of attacks supposedly committed by foreigners that are listed on the map, and then investigated them.The 'Einzelfall-Map' has been criticized for only showing crimes by certain nationalitiesHe says that it quickly became clear that the site's operators were working in an extremely arbitrary fashion. The site refers almost exclusively to crimes purported to have been committed by Arabs, Turks and Albanians. Georgians, Serbs and Romanians are also listed as possible perpetrators. The journalist criticizes the fact that criminals' foreign backgrounds could not be verified in 70 percent of the cases that he and his team investigated.The map is based on police records, but these are often quite superficial in their description of perpetrators. One report, for instance, listed a suspect as being in his early 20s, about 1.90 meters (six foot, two inches) tall, with dark hair and "southern" appearance. Such descriptions are of questionable value as they could apply to ethnic Germans.Nevertheless, "Einzelfall Map" has gained a lot of attention on social media networks and also from Russian media active in Germany. The news portal "Sputnik," for instance, repeatedly references the site.A total of 722,370 first-time applicants filed requests for political asylum in Germany in 2016, according to the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees (BAMF). The number reflects a roughly 65 percent increase compared to the previous year, when the total number of new applications stood at 441,899.The number of follow-up applications, however, recorded a decline of 33.3 percent. In 2015, 34,750 second-chance asylum requests were filed with BAMF, whereas in 2016 the number fell to 23,175.Combined, the number of first-time and follow-up applications for 2016 stood at 745,545. In 2015, this number stood at 476,649. So, BAMF recorded a 56.4 percent net increase in the total number of asylum requests in 2016 compared with 2015.The highest number of requests in 2016 were filed by Syrian nationals. According to BAMF s report, people from the war-torn Middle Eastern state submitted 266,250 of the new applications (36.9 percent). Afghan nationals came in second, with 127,012 (17.6 percent), followed by Iraqis, who filed 96,116 asylum requests (13.3 percent) last year.People from Iran filed 26,426 applications (3.7 percent). Eritreans submitted 18,854 applications (2.6 percent). Albanians totaled 14,853 (2.1 percent), 14,484 people from Pakistan requested asylum (2 percent), and Nigerians submitted 12,709 applications (1.8 percent).Nearly three-quarters of the applications filed in 2016 came from people younger than 30 years old. People aged between 18 and 25 filed 196,853 asylum requests, or about 23.5 percent of the overall total, making them the largest age group. The number of applications for children under the age of 4 stood at 78,192 (10.8 percent).German authorities accepted 433,920 people of the 695,733 applications they decided on in 2016. The overall protection rate for all countries of origin amounted to 62.4 percent.Ranging from vandalism to arson, more than 900 attacks on refugee centers were recorded in Germany in 2016. The Federal Criminal Police Office reported that, out of the 921 recorded offenses, 857 were suspected to have had far-right motives. In 2015, 1,031 such offenses were recorded, 923 of which were suspected of having a far-right background. Author: Aasim Saleem The "Lisa" caseBut agitation is not only taking place online. In early 2016, the case of Lisa, a 13-year-old girl from a Russian family living in Berlin, garnered much media attention. Media outlets reported that the girl had been kidnapped and raped by Arab refugees.A number of Russian media outlets used the case to agitate against refugees. They claimed the case illustrated German authorities' inability to keep such crimes secret. As a result, German-Russians, supported by rightwing extremists and members of Alternative for Germany (AfD), protested in front of Germany's Federal Chancellory.'Today my child, tomorrow your child' read the placards of protestors after the alleged abduction of LisaShortly thereafter, Lisa reappeared and eventually explained what had actually happened: She told of the problems that she was having at school and with her parents. Those problems were ultimately the reason she spent the night of her supposed abduction with a school friend. That friend turned out to be an adult.Many demonstrators refused to believe official police reports on the incident. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov even commented on the case from Moscow. Lavrov accused German authorities of downplaying the incident for political reasons.A selfie with consequencesSyrian refugee Anas Modamani was also the victim of an online hate campaign. He first became popular when he posed for a selfie with German Chancellor Angela Merkel&nbsp;in the summer of 2015. Many agitators used the attention he was afforded to their own advantage. Among other things, he was falsely accused of having been part of the group of youths that attempted to set a homeless man on fire in a Berlin subway station in late December of 2016. Six of the suspects in the incident are Syrians, one is a Libyan national.While in a refugee camp in Berlin Spandau, Anas Modamani heard that the German Chancellor Angela Merkel was coming for a visit and would be talking to refugees. The 19-year-old Syrian, who is quite fond of social media, went to take a selfie. He was hoping for the selfie to inspire a real change in his life..When Modamani's house in Damascus was bombed, he fled with his parents and siblings to a smaller city called Garia. That is when Anas fled for Europe in the hope that his family could join him there, once he had made it. He first traveled to Lebanon and from there to Turkey and then on to Greece.Anas almost died on the way. In order to get to Greece from Turkey he had to travel in a rubber boat, like most refugees. Anas says the boat was overcrowded and eventually capsized and he almost drowned.From Greece Anas traveled by foot to Macedonia. He continued to Hungary and Austria. In September 2015, he reached his final destination: Munich. Once in Germany, he decided he wants to move to Berlin. He has been living there ever since.Upon arrival to Berlin, Anas spent entire days in front of the LaGeSo, a refugee center in the city. The 19-year-old says that the situation at the LaGeSo was difficult, especially during the winter. Eventually he was sent to the refugee center in Berlin Spandau. He wanted to raise awareness to his situation as a refugee and a selfie with Merkel seemed like the perfect chance to do exactly that.Anas says that the selfie with Chancellor Merkel was a life-changer for him. He got a lot of media attention after the photo was published online, and that is how his German foster family became aware of him. He has been living with them for 2 months now. They have been supporting him ever since he became a member of their family.Since living with the Meeuw's Anas is happier than ever before. He is doing a German language course, has made a lot of friends and is doing a lot of cultural activities. He graduated high school in Syria and wants to pursue higher studies in Germany. But his main aim right now is to be officially granted asylum and to be able to bring his family to Germany as well.Anas is hoping for a good and safe life in Germany. But he is worried about the current sentiment towards refugees in the country. He thinks that the negative mood might escalate and have an impact on the laws in regard to refugees. Anas fears that he might not be granted asylum after all, thus ending his dream of bringing his family to Germany. Author: Rachel Baig Shortly after the incident took place a manipulated photo appeared online. It supposedly showed Anas Modamani at the time of the attack. At that point Modamani hired a lawyer. He demanded that Facebook remove the photo. By then, it had already been shared hundreds of times. Facebook refused to remove the image. Their justification: The photo did not violate its community standards. Thus, Modamani continued to be accused of the crime and verbally attacked.And, incredibly, he had to suffer further slander still. It was later claimed that Modamani was a member of the terror cell that conducted the attack at Brussels' airport in March 2016. The racist group Anonymous.Kollektiv posted the selfie of Modamani and the chancellor next to an image of Najm al-Ashrawi , one of the Brussels terrorists, on Facebook. It was claimed that al-Ashrawi had posted the photo himself.Anas Modamani sued Facebook over the dissimenation of the selfie he took with Angela MerkelSupposed attacks in FrankfurtA well-established German media outlet was also unwittingly involved in disseminating a fake report. In February 2017, "Bild," Germany's largest tabloid newspaper, reported that a number of Arabic or North African-looking men had rampaged restaurants and bars in Frankfurt on New Year's Eve and went on to sexually harass women at the establishments.The report was based on the testimony of a young woman who claimed to have been groped and harassed. It was also based on statements by a bar owner and two of his employees, all of whom claimed to have witnessed the incident.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But the case turned out to be a fabrication: Police said they could not confirm that the incident had ever taken place. "Bild" later apologized, and promised to investigate the source of this fake news item.Yet online defamations continue. Whether they peddle fake statistics or manipulated "evidence": It seems that online agitators bent on slandering refugees and fomenting hate directed against them are willing to do whatever it takes to achieve those ends. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2Yf6K