Germany's "super election year" kicked off on Sunday, with some 800,000 eligible voters casting ballots for the state parliament in Saarland. Sunday's vote marked the first in a series of key state&nbsp;elections leading up to the federal parliamentary elections slated for September.Preliminary official figures place German Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) ahead of the competition with 40.7 percent of the vote, up from 35.2 percent in the 2012 elections.Support for the Social Democrats (SPD) slipped, with the center-left party garnering 29.6 percent, down from 30.6 percent in 2012. SPD party leader Martin Schulz&nbsp;explained his party's failure to boost support in Saarland by saying: "Receiving a goal does not mean the match it is over."The Left party&nbsp;was set to take&nbsp;12.9 percent,&nbsp;Alternative for Germany (AfD) 6.2&nbsp;percent and the Greens 4.5 percent of the votes, with the latter effectively falling short of the 5 percent threshold to gain seats in the new parliament."The people decided on stability and reliability," said CDU Secretary General Peter Tauber."This result is a clear rejection of red-red-green," he added, referring to the pre-election prospect of a left-of-center alliance comprising the SPD, the Left party and the Greens.The preliminary results put the CDU on track for 24 seats in the state's parliament, the SPD 17, the Left seven and the AfD three.The outcome of the vote in one of Germany's smallest states has been&nbsp;viewed as a sign of voter sentiment ahead of state elections in Schleswig-Holstein and North Rhine-Westphalia in May, and federal elections in September.Another 'grand coalition'?The CDU has ruled the southwestern state for the past 18 years, but the conservative state premier Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer (pictured above)&nbsp;faced a potential upset from the center-left SPD led by Anke Rehlinger, the state's deputy premier and minister for economic affairs.The SPD's popularity has surged in recent months on the so-called "Schulz effect,"&nbsp;a reference to&nbsp;the new party leader and&nbsp;candidate for chancellor.&nbsp;However, it failed to translate into votes in&nbsp;Saarland.The CDU and SPD are in a "grand coalition" in Saarland, just as Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives and the SPD are at the national level. Another CDU-SPD coalition in the state is possibleAfD makes itThe AfD&nbsp;siphoned off support from all mainstream parties before retreating slightly in nationwide polls in recent months.The populist, right-wing party looks to have cleared the 5 percent electoral threshold by about one point&nbsp;in Saarland. That puts the AfD in its 11th state parliament - out of a total of 16 federal states in Germany.Voter turnout was reported to be 71 percent, up from a turnout of 61.6 percent&nbsp;in the 2012 poll.The stakes are high for Germany's election year - with Chancellor Angela Merkel up for a fourth term and the populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party attempting to cash in on anti-migrant sentiment, one thing is clear - German politics won't be the same by the end of 2017. Here's a look at the most important dates.Residents of the state of Saarland on the border to France on March 26. With 51 seats, Saarland is Germany's smallest state parliament. State premier Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer of the CDU (above) is seeking to secure a third term.Danish residents are also allowed to vote in Schleswig-Holstein's state parliament elections in May. In the last election, the Danish minority party won three of the northern state's 69 seats. They became part of the SPD-led government along with the Green party.With 17.5 million inhabitants, the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia is Germany's most populous state. With its traditional rural regions and diverse urban zones, NRW's state parliament election is also perceived as a test run for how the federal election will play out in September.The 97th day before the election, is the cut off date for any party to announce its intention to run for the Bundestag. They have to submit their applications by 6 p.m. to the Federal Returning Officer. Roderich Egeler (above) oversees the election and heads Germany's Statistical Office.On the 79th day before the election, the parties that are allowed to take part in the election are announced by the Federal Returning Officer. If a party does not agree with decision, it has four days to file a complaint with Germany's Constitutional Court.Political parties in Germany have until the 69th day before the election to determine which candidates will be running in which constituency. These representatives make up the first vote on Germany's split ballot. Parties must also submit a list of candidates for the party vote on the second half of the ballot.Smaller parties that filed a suit with the Constitutional Court to be allowed to take part in the election will receive their verdicts today. This option has only been available since the last Bundestag election in 2013. At that time, 11 parties petitioned the court to appear on the ballot - but none were successful.Unlike other countries, parties in Germany cannot put up campaign posters or run TV ads until 6 weeks before the election. But on August 13, the campaign floodgates open and no lamp post will be safe from the cardboard visages of each party's main candidates.A little over one month shy of the election, the most important list is compiled - the electoral register or voter list. In Germany, every citizen who is 18 years or older can vote in the general election - meaning there are 61.5 million eligible voters this year.At this point, all eligible voters should have recieved an authorization certificate in the mail. People who aren't already on the voter list still have time to register. Those who wish to vote-by-mail can request their ballot.Less than a week to go and preparations are kicking into high gear. Ballots, polling booths and transport boxes start rolling in and election workers are trained. Local authorities must inform voters where they should go to vote. Residents can still register until 36 hours before the election.The big day has finally arrived. Schools, gym halls and community centers are transformed as people arrive to cast their ballots. Polling stations open at 8:00 a.m. sharp and at 6:00 p.m. they close again. The votes are tallied and the Federal Returning Officer announces the preliminary results that same night.Only after all of the representative and party votes are counted, the final result is announced. If a candidate did not win his or her constituency, they could still get a seat in the Bundestag if they made the party's regional list.The newly elected parliament must meet for the first time no later than one month after the election. Afterwards comes the tricky work of coalition negotiations, followed by a secret ballot to elect the next chancellor. If anyone wants to challenge the validity of the election, they have two months to do so. All voters, the state election overseers, the president of the Bundestag and the Federal Election Commissioner (above) are entitled to appeal the result. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier ls,cw&nbsp;/ gsw&nbsp;(dpa, AFP)