Former French Prime Minister Alain Juppe on Monday said he would not enter the presidential race to replace Francois Fillon if the beleagured conservative decides to withdraw."I'm not in a position today to achieve the required unity behind a unifying project. I confirm once and for all that I will not be candidate to the presidency of the Republic," Juppe, 71, told a press conference in his hometown of Bordeaux. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2YgCVMembers of Juppe's&nbsp;Republicans party had been calling for him to throw his hat into the ring after a financial scandal engulfed Fillon's campaign and led to a significant drop in his poll ratings. The crisis stemmed&nbsp;from allegations that he paid his wife hundreds of thousands of euros in public money for a job that may not have existed. Fillon, also a former prime minister, has denied any wrongdoing.Surveys suggest the 63-year-old,&nbsp;once a clear frontrunner,&nbsp;likely won't make it past the first round of voting on April 23. That would leave centrist Emannuel Macron to face off against far-right Front National leader Marine Le Pen in the second round on May 7. Polls show that Juppe, however, would have a better chance of reaching the runoff.&nbsp;Macron quit as economy minister in August and launched his independent presidential bid in November. The 39-year-old centrist formed his own political movement, En Marche (Forward), and is seen as a reformer. He's never held elected office, but a December poll named him France's most popular politician. He's voiced admiration for German Chancellor Angela Merkel's refugee policy.The National Front leader has adopted a more moderate tone than her anti-Semitic father, party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen. But she still takes a hard line on immigration, saying children of irregular migrants should not have access to public education. She also wants France to withdraw from the eurozone and have a referendum on EU membership. It's predicted she'll advance to the second round. A surprise winner of the right-wing Republicans primaries, the socially conservative Fillon is seen to represent the interests of France's Catholic middle class. An admirer of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, he supports a liberal economic policy. Until Penelopegate struck, he was widely projected as the winner of a run-off against Le Pen. In a runoff against former French PM Manuel Valls in the Socialist primary, Hamon was the more left-wing choice of the two politicians. The 49-year-old supports a universal basic income and wants to reduce the traditional work week to 35 hours. He has also spoken in support of legalizing cannabis and increased investment in renewable energy. Author: Samantha Early 'Too late'Juppe told reporters&nbsp;"it's too late" for him&nbsp;to start a campaign. "Last&nbsp;week I received many calls asking me to take the helm. They made me hesitate, I thought about it. Today uniting everyone has become even more difficult."Juppe also criticized Fillon, who has refused to give up despite pleas from senior figures within the party."What a waste," Juppe said of the Fillon campaign, adding that it had reached a "dead-end."Sarkozy joins the political chorusEarlier on Monday, fellow conservative and former French President Nicolas Sarkozy had said he wanted to meet with Juppe and Fillon to resolve the political crisis.In a post to his Twitter feed, Sarkozy said the situation was "creating deep unease among French people," and&nbsp;playing into the hands of the far-right.A meeting of senior party officials was scheduled for Monday evening.In advance of the meeting, anonymous members of Sarkozy's entourage called for Fillon to choose a replacement&nbsp;to serve as the conservative party's presidential candidate.&nbsp;cmb, nm/se (Reuters, AFP)