The longest-lasting Category 5 Hurricane Irma was downgraded to a tropical storm on Monday after it tore a destructive path through the Caribbean and Florida, but warnings of deadly flooding, powerful winds and storm surges remain. Hurricane Jose is also approaching the region.Cuba said 10 people had been killed over the weekend, bringing the death toll to at least 40 people since Irma pounded a string of Caribbean islands as a Category 4 and 5 hurricane starting on Wednesday.Irma hit the Florida Keys on Sunday as a Category 4 hurricane, pummeling the tourist archipelago with screeching winds and storm surges that tore off roofs and knocked down trees and powerlines.Irma left several cities throughout the state flooded and nearly six million homes without power as it moved north up the state s west coast towards Georgia, packing winds of 100 kilometers per hour (65 miles per hour). States of emergency are in effect in Georgia, South Carolina, Virginia and Florida.Read more: Mother Nature's wrath: Is climate change making mega-hurricanes the new normal? Authorities are still assessing the damage to the Keys, Florida Governor Rick Scott said."I'm going with the Coast Guard down to see the Keys, I've heard that there is some significant damage in the Keys right where the eye of the storm hit. So we will find out," he told NBC's "Today" show Monday morning.The archipelago is connected by a series of bridges and causeways that authorities will have to check for structural damage. However, officials said they had yet to clear one of the main highways that connects a string of islands to the mainland. US Navy ships and an aircraft carrier are aiding efforts and conducting search-and-rescue operations in the Keys. More than 220,000 people sought safety in shelters. Flood warningsMiami was spared facing the brunt of the hurricane after it tacked up Florida s western coast, but large swaths of the city were flooded by heavy rains and storm surges. By Monday morning, the streets of the sprawling metropolis and its suburbs were a tangle of debris, fallen tress and downed power lines.In Jacksonville, in northeast Florida, authorities on Monday declared a flash flood emergency due to storm surges and a flooding river. Storm surge warnings remained in effect in several other areas, including the Tampa Bay region.At least three people in Florida were reported dead as a result of car accidents.Authorities continued to warn of electrocution from downed power lines, sewage leeks, flooding and even snakes and alligators. They urged people to remain indoors.Emergency funding US President Donald Trump approved Florida s request for emergency federal funding, as well as continued federal support for Texas after Hurricane Harvey devastated parts of the state late last month. "Right now, we're worried about lives, not cost," Trump said.The funding will be used to care for victims, repairs, clean up and bring back power.Catastrophe modeling firm AIR Worldwide estimated damage of $20 billion ( 17 billion) to $40 billion to insured property, much less than originally estimated. A direct hurricane hit on Miami would have caused up to $150 billion, according to some estimates.Hurricane Irma has killed dozens of people and injured many more since the record-breaking storm roared over the French Caribbean islands. With its powerful winds having topped 185 miles (295 kilometers) per hour, Irma is the strongest storm ever recorded in the Atlantic Ocean, according to the US National Hurricane Center based in Miami.The Franco-Dutch island of Saint Martin suffered the full fury of the storm. Rescuers on the French side said at least eight people died and some 95 percent of homes were destroyed. The Netherlands and France both sent troops and medics to help with rescue efforts.Prime Minister Gaston Browne said Barbuda was a "scene of total carnage." Officials on the tiny two-island nation said it will seek international assistance. He further reported that about half of Barbuda's 1,800 population were homeless while nine out of 10 buildings had suffered damage, many of them destroyed.Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello said about two-thirds of the island's 3.4 million inhabitants lost electricity in the storm. Shelters have been set up for about 62,000 people whose homes were destroyed.Irma crawled across Cuba's northern coast, bearing down on the island nation as a Category 5 hurricane. It left thousands of homes, businesses and hotels flooded. The hurricane's storm surge topped Malecon, the iconic seaside boulevard in the capital of Havana. Cuba is often hit by hurricanes that strike the Caribbean.Irma made US landfall in Key West, then again on Marcos Island on the US state of Florida's Gulf Coast. The storm brought several tornadoes, which leveled homes in the eastern city of Palm Bay. In Miami, hurricane-force winds brought down two cranes. State authorities have vowed a swift response to aid victims of the hurricane and cleanup its devastation.The destructive storm also left other victims in its wake, namely marine wildlife. The hurricane caused water levels to rise and fall much quicker than normal, leaving some animals, like this manatee, behind to die on land.Irma follows hot on the heels of Hurricane Harvey which devastated large swathes of Texas and Louisiana in late August. Before Irma made landfall in the US, two other storms, Jose in the Atlantic Ocean and Katia in the Gulf of Mexico, were upgraded to hurricane status. Weather forecasters believe Jose could still pose a threat to the continental US. Author: Nadine Berghausen Before Irma ripped through Florida prompting the evacuation of 6 million people, the massive storm first made landfall on Barbuda on Wednesday as a Category 5 hurricane. Winds of up to 295 kph (180 mph) destroyed 30 percent the island's properties.It then plowed over Saint Barts and Saint Martin, the US Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Haiti and the Turks and Caicos before hitting Cuba s northern coast.cw/rc (AFP, AP, Reuters) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2jjYN