United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein lashed out at Myanmar government on Monday for what he termed as a "clearly disproportionate" response to insurgent attack on border guard posts last month."I call on the government to end its current cruel military operation, with accountability for all violations that have occurred, and to reverse the pattern of severe and widespread discrimination against the Rohingya population," Zeid said. "The situation seems a textbook example of ethnic cleansing."Myanmar has refused access to human rights investigators.Read more: Myanmar's Rohingya: a history of forced exodusesOver 300,000 Rohingya have fled Myanmar's Rohingya to seek protection after an insurgent attack on security forces on August 25 in Rakhine sparked off a brutal military counter offensive.Hundreds of people, the majority of them Rohingya, have been killed in the violence that has seen many homes destroyed and several villages burned down. Zeid called on Myanmar "to end its current cruel military operation"Speaking at the start of a UN Human Rights Council session, Zeid pointed to satellite imagery and reports of "security forces and local militia burning Rohingya villages" and extrajudicial killings."The Myanmar government should stop pretending that the Rohingya are setting fire to their own homes and laying waste to their own villages," he said."This complete denial of reality is doing great damage to the international standing of a government which, until recently, benefited from immense good will."Rohingya have faced years of persecution in Myanmar. They have been denied citizenship rights and are viewed by the local authorities as illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. Myanmar's Buddhist majority is often accused of subjecting them to discrimination and violence.Read more: The Rohingya people in Myanmar - What you need to know Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2jZxwLandmine allegationsZeid said he was further "appalled" by reports of Myanmar authorities laying land mines along the border with Bangladesh.Human rights watchdog Amnesty International said there were two landmine incidents on Sunday, including a blast that blew off a man's leg."All indications point to the Myanmar security forces deliberately targeting locations that Rohingya refugees use as crossing points," Tirana Hassan, Amnesty's Crisis Response Director, said in a statement.Amnesty says Myanmar has one of the few militaries, along with North Korea and Syria, which has openly used anti-personnel land mines in recent years.On Saturday, Rohingya insurgent group Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army declared a unilateral ceasefire but the declaration was rebuffed by the Myanmar government.Read more: Myanmar's Rohingya rebels - What you need to knowThe spokesman for Myanmar's leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, said on Twitter: "We have no policy to negotiate with terrorists."ap/kms (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa)A series of coordinated attacks by Rohingya insurgents on Myanmar security forces in the north of Myanmar's Rakhine State triggered a crackdown by Myanmar forces that has sent a stream of Rohingya villagers fleeing to Bangladesh. About 400 people have been killed in the clashes in Buddist-majority Myanmar.A Rohingya man passes a child though a barbed wire border fence on the border with Bangladesh. Myanmar accused the Rohingya insurgents of torching seven villages, one outpost, and two parts of Maungdaw town. The crackdown by Myanmar forces also sparked a mass evacuation of thousands of Buddhist residents of the area. Tension has long been high between the Rohingya Muslims and Rakhine Buddhists, leading to bloody rioting in 2012. Rakhine Buddhists, feeling unsafe after the upsurge in fighting, are moving south to the state's capital, Sittwe, where Buddhists are a majority and have greater security.Bangladeshi border guards block people from crossing. Thousands of Rohingyas have sought to flee the fighting to Bangladesh, with nearly 30,000 crossing over. Bangladesh, which is already host to more than 400,000 Rohingya said it will not accept any more refugees, despite an appeal by U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for Dhaka to allow Rohingya to seek safety. An aid worker with an international agency in Bangladesh reports: "What we're seeing is that many Rohingya people are sick. This is because they got stuck in the border before they could enter. It's mostly women and children." The Rohingya are denied citizenship in Myanmar and classified as illegal immigrants, despite claiming roots there that go back centuries.A group of Rohingya refugees takes shelter at the Kutuupalang makeshift refugee camp in Cox's Bazar in Bangladesh. Bangladesh's unwillingness to host more refugees became apparent in the government's plan to relocate Rohingyas to a remote island that is mostly flooded during the monsoon season.Rohingya children make their way through water as they try to come to the Bangladesh side from no man's land. Tens of thousands of Rohingya refugees are believed to be stuck at the border to Bangladesh. Author: Nadine Berghausen