As one of the Atlantic Ocean's largest storms plowed through the Caribbean, leaving destruction in its wake, residents of the US state of Florida prepared for what could be the worst storm to make landfall in over a century. Hurricane Irma was expected to make landfall in the Miami metro area early Saturday, after swiping Cuba on Friday.Irma will have a "truly devastating" impact on the state's southern coastal areas when it slams into Florida, said US Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) chief Brock Long.Read more: Is climate change making mega-hurricanes the new normal?"Bottom line is the majority of people along the coast have never experienced a major hurricane like this. It will be truly devastating," Long told CNN. "The entire southeastern United States better wake up and pay attention.In the US territory of Puerto Rico, one million people nearly one-third of the population - lost electricity during the storm, said Puerto Rican Governor Ricardo Rossello. "It will be difficult to estimate how long the power outage will last," Rossello said. Later, officials confirmed that at least two people on the island had been killed by the storm's devastation.Hurricane Irma has killed several people and injured many more in French Caribbean island territories as the dangerous Category 5 storm roared over the islands. With its powerful winds, Irma is the strongest storm ever recorded in the Atlantic Ocean. The Franco-Dutch island of Saint Martin suffered the full fury of the storm. Rescuers on the French side said at least eight people had died and some 95 percent of homes had been destroyed. The other half belongs to The Netherlands and a delegation of troops and medics arrived from France to help with rescue efforts.A man inspects the shattered remains of his home in Havana, Antigua and Barbuda. Prime Minister Gaston Browne said Barbuda was a "scene of total carnage." The tiny two-island nation will seek international assistance. He further reported that about half of Barbuda's 1,800 population were homeless while nine out of 10 buildings had suffered damage and many were destroyed.A damaged marina with boats tossed into piles is seen in Paraquita Bay on the Carribean island of Tortola. Irma follows hot on the heels of Hurricane Harvey which devastated large swathes of Texas and Louisiana in late August. Meanwhile, two other tropical storms, Jose in the Atlantic Ocean and Katia in the Gulf of Mexico, were upgraded to hurricane status.People make their own sandbags before the arrival of Hurricane Irma in Las Terrenas on the Dominican Republic. Irma was packing maximum sustained winds of up to 185 miles (295 kilometers) per hour as it followed a projected path that would see it hit the northern edges of the Dominican Republic and Haiti on Thursday, continuing past eastern Cuba before veering north towards Florida.A shop owner installs hurricane shutters in Key Largo, Florida in preparation for Irma. Residents in parts of the Miami area are also under mandatory orders to leave their homes as Irma barrels toward the region with potentially catastrophic winds. Florida Governor Rick Scott warned that Irma is "bigger, faster and stronger" than Hurricane Andrew, the last Category 5 storm to hit the state.Traffic is slow-moving northbound as people evacuate the Florida Keys. Officials announced a mandatory evacuation for visitors, with residents being told to leave the next day. Gas stations between the Florida Keys and Miami ran out of gas, while nearly all local supermarkets had sold out of bottled water, with fights breaking out among shoppers in some stores.Ahead of expected landfall on the US mainland on Saturday, Irma tore through the US territory of Puerto Rico. The destruction killed at least two people on the island, bringing the total death toll up to at least 12.Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello said about two-thirds of the island's 3.4 million inhabitants lost electricity in the storm. Shelters have been set up for about 62,000 people whose homes were destroyed. Author: Nadine Berghausen Irma also killed four people in the US Virgin Islands and caused damage to infrastructure, including a major hospital, a government spokesman said on Thursday. 'Full blast'At least 11 people have been killed and dozens more injured after Irma tore through the French Caribbean, Barbuda, Anguilla and the British Virgin Islands.Amid a widening criticism from residents in British territories that not enough was done to weather the storm, British Foreign Office Minister Alana Duncan said London has sent tents, vehicles and other relief equipment.Hurricane Irma wrecked havoc on the Dutch Caribbean island of Sint Maarten, leaving behind destroyed buildings Read more: How to reduce risks from mega-storms?"Anguilla received the hurricane's full blast. The initial assessment is that the damage has been severe and in places critical," Duncan told the British parliament.Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne said nearly every building on Barbuda was damaged when the hurricane's core crossed almost directly over the island early Wednesday and about 60 percent of the island's roughly 1,400 people were homeless.French, British and Dutch military authorities reportedly rushed aid to the devastated Caribbean islands later on Thursday, with warships and planes dispatching food, water and troops.French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said four people were confirmed dead and about 50 injured on the French side of St. Martin, an island split between Dutch and French control. French Interior Minister Gerard Collomb said 100,000 food rations were sent to St. Barts and St. Martin, the equivalent of four days of supplies.Nassau international airport in the Bahamas was due to be closed late Thursday. 'Additional evacuations'In the US state of Florida, Governor Rick Scott said on Thursday that state and federal authorities have launched preparations for the storm and its immediate aftermath in order to ensure utilities, such as electricity and water, are online as quickly as possible."Right now, the National Hurricane Center is reporting that Hurricane Irma remains a dangerous and life-threatening Category 5 storm with winds of 180 miles per hour (290 kilometers per hour," said Scott. The Nationa Hurricane Center later downgraded the storm to category 4.Read more: Harvey, Irma, Jose: What is hurricane season?The Florida state governor ordered the mandatory evacuation of visitors and residents in the Florida Keys and parts of Miami-Dade country. "We can expect additional evacuations as this storm continues to near our state," he added.At least 31,000 people have fled the Florida Keys, which could begin seeing wind and rain from Irma as early as Friday night, Gov. Rick Scott said later.Irma is expected to be the second major hurricane to make landfall in the US in less than two weeks. Hurricane Harvey struck Texas last week, killing more than 60 people and displacing roughly 1 million others. On Thursday, the US Senate approved $15.25 billion (12.71 billion euros) in disaster aid linked to Hurricane Harvey. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2jSG7No way, Jose!Jose was recategorized a Category 3 hurricane later on Thursday by the US National Hurricane Center, making it the third major hurricane of the 2017 Atlantic season. Jose is located 955 kilometres east of the Lesser Antilles, with maximum sustained winds of 195 kilometres per hour and a hurricane watch is in effect for Antigua and Barbuda, as Jose follows the same path as Hurricane Irma.ls,jm/jbh (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa)