The UK parliament was told Tuesday that the prison breach posed a threat to the hurricane-hit British territory."We had a serious threat of the complete breakdown of law and order in the British Virgin Islands (BVI)," Foreign Office minister Alan Duncan told parliament.Read more: Hurricane Irma weakens after leaving trail of destruction in FloridaBritish marines were deployed on Friday, with reinforcements over the weekend making a total of about 1,000 British troops in the region.French President Emmanuel Macron's plane brought in emergency supplies and doctors to assess damage in the Caribbean"We have maintained and kept law and order on the BVI, which at one point, could have dramatically threatened the already unfortunate plight of those who had been hit by the hurricane," Duncan added. He did not reveal how many prisoners had been recaptured or were still at large. A night-time curfew was imposed. The death toll in the British territories had climbed to nine, Duncan said, comprising five in the British Virgin Islands and four in Anguilla. Irma is believed to have killed 43 people in the Carribbean and at least 12 in Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina. Meteorologists are now monitoring Hurricane Jose which is still in the Atlantic, some 700 miles (1,130 km) west of Florida.Hurricane Irma has killed dozens of people and injured many more since the record-breaking storm roared over the French Caribbean islands. With its powerful winds having topped 185 miles (295 kilometers) per hour, Irma is the strongest storm ever recorded in the Atlantic Ocean, according to the US National Hurricane Center based in Miami.The Franco-Dutch island of Saint Martin suffered the full fury of the storm. Rescuers on the French side said at least eight people died and some 95 percent of homes were destroyed. The Netherlands and France both sent troops and medics to help with rescue efforts.Prime Minister Gaston Browne said Barbuda was a "scene of total carnage." Officials on the tiny two-island nation said it will seek international assistance. He further reported that about half of Barbuda's 1,800 population were homeless while nine out of 10 buildings had suffered damage, many of them destroyed.Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello said about two-thirds of the island's 3.4 million inhabitants lost electricity in the storm. Shelters have been set up for about 62,000 people whose homes were destroyed.Irma crawled across Cuba's northern coast, bearing down on the island nation as a Category 5 hurricane. It left thousands of homes, businesses and hotels flooded. The hurricane's storm surge topped Malecon, the iconic seaside boulevard in the capital of Havana. Cuba is often hit by hurricanes that strike the Caribbean.Irma made US landfall in Key West, then again on Marcos Island on the US state of Florida's Gulf Coast. The storm brought several tornadoes, which leveled homes in the eastern city of Palm Bay. In Miami, hurricane-force winds brought down two cranes. State authorities have vowed a swift response to aid victims of the hurricane and cleanup its devastation.Although Georgia and South Carolina avoided the worst of Irma's destructive path, Georgia Governor Nathan Deal declared a state of emergency after 340,000 were left without electricity and four people died. Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport, one the world's busiest airports, was forced to cancel some 800 flights on Monday.The destructive storm also left other victims in its wake, namely marine wildlife. The hurricane caused water levels to rise and fall much quicker than normal, leaving some animals, like this manatee, behind to die on land.Irma follows hot on the heels of Hurricane Harvey which devastated large swathes of Texas and Louisiana in late August. Before Irma made landfall in the US, two other storms, Jose in the Atlantic Ocean and Katia in the Gulf of Mexico, were upgraded to hurricane status. Weather forecasters believe Jose could still pose a threat to the continental US. Author: Nadine Berghausen European territories hitMany of the Caribbean islands hardest hit by Irma are overseas territories of France, Britain and the Netherlands. The US Virgin Islands were also badly affected. As the countries sent troops to deliver aid and provide security, some locals and tourists who were left short of food and shelter said help was slow to arrive and raised concerns about looting and lawlessness.Read more: Hurricane season: Harvey followed by Irma, followed by Jos , then KatiaBritish Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson and French President Emmanuel Macron were due to visit their countries' respective disaster-hit territories on Tuesday.King Willem-Alexander visited the Dutch territory of Sint MarteenMacron vowed to cut through red tape to quickly rebuild the French Caribbean islands, denying that authorities were too slow to react."St. Martin will be reborn, I promise," he said. "I will shake up all the rules and procedures so the job is done as quickly as possible. It will be done quickly, it will be done well and it will be done better," he said.Johnson has defended his government's response to what he called an "unprecedented catastrophe."Dutch King Willem-Alexander, who visited Dutch territories on Monday, spoke of his horror at what he found."I have seen proper war as well as natural disasters before, but I've never seen anything like this," he said.In the US, millions of homes in southern states including Florida remained without power as Irma, at one point a Category 5 hurricane, weakened into a tropical depression and made its way north. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2jiK0se/rc (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa)