In an article made available Saturday ahead of the paper's Sunday printing, Welt am Sonntag reported it had a 2013 email containing "racist remarks and democracy-scorning theses" sent by the Alternative for Germany's (AfD) top candidate Alice Weidel. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2jLaCThe paper reported that the email, dated February 24, 2013, was sent from Weidel to a confidante while she was living in the German city of Frankfurt and working as an asset manager for Allianz.Read more: AfD's Alice Weidel: The pride of the populists, a mystery to everyone else"The reason why we are overrun by culturally foreign people such as Arabs, Sinti and Roma is the systematic destruction of civil society as a possible counterweight from the enemies of the constitution by whom we are governed," the newspaper quoted the email as saying.The email described German Chancellor Angela Merkel's government as "pigs" who were nothing more than "puppets of WWII allies." It continued to say Merkel's government was given the task of limiting the population of the German "Volk," or people.The email's original text in German uses several words with strong Nazi-era connotations, including " berfremdung," which roughly translates to "foreign infiltration" and is used in far-right circles to stir xenophobic sentiment.Read more: Anti-immigration AfD party leader Alice Weidel walks out of TV debate Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2jdF8AfD denies reportPrior the email's release, Welt am Sonntag said Weidel tried to stop the report from being published. The paper was contacted by Weidel's lawyers, who said the AfD politician was not the email's author.Her lawyers told the paper that it was incorrect and unlawful to "publically claim that our client wrote this text or to even express that suspicion."Weidel's populist party also backed her. AfD spokesman Christian L th told German news agency DPA that Weidel had assured him that she did not write the email, calling it "a fake." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2bqMJIn its report, however, Welt am Sonntag said it had an affidavit and other statements from people who were part of Weidel's personal and professional network at the time that proved otherwise.Read more: 10 things you need to know about Germany's right-wing AfDAt the bottom of the email, sent via iPhone, the author signed off with the name "Lille" which was Weidel's nickname at the time, according to both Welt am Sonntag and DPA.At the time the allegedly Weidel-penned email was sent, she became politically active in a party called "Wahlalternative 2013" or "Electoral Alternative 2013," the precursor to the AfD.Weidel, an economist, is often regarded as the AfD's more moderate face. She's known for sidestepping journalist questions about the racist and xenophobic remarks from other leading party members."I have no use for nationalistic ranting," Weidel told the S dwest Presse in 2016.German border police should shoot at refugees entering the country illegally, the former co-chair of the AfD told a regional newspaper in 2016. Officers must "use firearms if necessary" to "prevent illegal border crossings." Communist East German leader Erich Honecker was the last German politician who condoned shooting at the border.The head of the AfD in the state of Thuringia made headlines for referring to Berlin's Holocaust memorial as a "monument of shame" and calling on the country to stop atoning for its Nazi past. The comments came just as Germany enters an important election year - leading AfD members moved to expel H cke for his remarks. Co-chairman Alexander Gauland said the German national soccer team's defender Jerome Boateng might be appreciated for his performance on the pitch - but people would not want "someone like Boateng as a neighbor." He also argued Germany should close its borders and "suffer the cruel pictures. We can't be blackmailed by children's eyes."Initially, the AfD campaigned against the euro and bailouts - but that quickly turned into anti-immigrant rhetoric. "People who won't accept STOP at our borders are attackers," the European lawmaker said. "And we have to defend ourselves against attackers." Alternative for Germany's North Rhine-Westphalia state chairman Marcus Pretzell, who is also Frauke Petry's new husband, wrote "These are Merkel's dead," shortly after news broke of the deadly attack on the Berlin Christmas market in December 2016. The member of parliament in Germany's eastern state of Saxony made waves in early 2016 with an inquiry into how far the state covers the cost of sterilizing unaccompanied refugee minors. Thousands of unaccompanied minors have sought asylum in Germany, according to the Federal Association for Unaccompanied Minor Refugees (BumF) - the vast majority of them young men. Poggenburg, head of the AfD in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt, has also raised eyebrows with extreme remarks. In February 2017, he urged other lawmakers in the state parliament to join measures against the extreme left-wing in order to "get rid of, once and for all, this rank growth on the German racial corpus" - the latter term clearly derived from Nazi terminology. During a campaign speech in Eichsfeld in August 2017, AfD election co-candidate Alexander Gauland said that Social Democrat parliamentarian Aydan zoguz should be "disposed of" back to Anatolia. The German term, "entsorgen," raised obvious parallels to the imprisonment and killings of Jews and prisoners of war under the Nazis. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach