North Korea conducted a large-scale conventional live-fire military drill in the region of Wonsan on its east coast, South Korea's Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff confirmed on Tuesday. In a statement, the South's military said it was "closely monitoring" the situation and "maintaining readiness."Read: North Korea crisis - South Korea remains releaxedNorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un was likely to have observed the drill, ostensibly to mark 85 years since the founding of the North's military, South Korean news agency Yonhap reported.&nbsp; Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2brrlInternational concerns have been heightened in recent weeks that the North could soon carry out another nuclear test or missile launch, in defiance of United Nations sanctions. The reclusive country, where 40 percent of the population is undernourished according to the Global Hunger Index, often marks significant anniversaries with shows of military force. Although it was feared a nuclear test or ballistic missile launch might happen on Tuesday, no such test happened during the morning.The harsh rhetoric continued from Pyongyang, with a top military general repeating&nbsp;that the North was ready to use pre-emptive strikes to defend itself."The situation prevailing on the Korean Peninsula is so tense that a nuclear war may break out due to the frantic war drills of the U.S. imperialists and their vassal forces for aggression," General&nbsp;Pak Yong Sik told a major meeting of senior military and civilian officials. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2bZC7US nuclear submarine docks in BusanUS President Donald Trump has vowed to prevent North Korea from becoming capable of striking the US with a nuclear missile and ruled out nothing including a military strike. As a show of force, he sent the USS Carl Vinson carrier strike group to waters off Korea. The fleet was carrying out drills with Japanese warships.&nbsp;South Korea's navy was also carrying out exercises with US destroyers in waters off the Korean peninsula.&nbsp;As the drills continued, the US Navy said the nuclear-powered guided missile submarine USS Michigan arrived in the South Korean port of Busan on Tuesday. The submarine was not expected to participate in joint naval exercises.Trump's UN ambassador Nikki Haley said the US wasn't looking for a fight with North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un and wouldn't attack "unless he gives us reason to do something." She praised China's increasing pressure on North Korea, seen by Washington as key to reigning in Pyongyang's military ambitions. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2bKlYIncreased diplomatic activityMeanwhile, top envoys from Japan, South Korea and the US held talks in Tokyo, with US envoy Joseph Yun saying he and his counterparts agreed to coordinate "all actions" on North Korea. They also agreed China had a key role in pressuring Pyongyang to abandon its nuclear and missile program. According to Japan's foreign ministry, China's envoy for North Korea was also due to visit Tokyo for talks.&nbsp;Trump on Monday urged UN Security Council ambassadors to consider even tougher sanctions on North Korea. US senators were due to be briefed on North Korea at the White House on Wednesday.In February, China banned all coal imports from North Korea. Under tight conditions, North Korea may still export $400.87 million (374 million euros) or 7.5 million metric tons of coal per year, whichever is less. Pictured here is China's Liaoning Greenland Energy Coal Co. in Dandong, on the border with North Korea. North Korea is prohibited from opening banks abroad, and UN member states are prohibited from operating financial institutions on Pyongyang's behalf. Any dealings that might help North Korea skirt the sanctions are banned, and UN member states must expel and repatriate anyone working on the regime's financial behalf.This North Korean cargo ship found itself boarded for inspection in the Philippines in March 2016 after the United Nations ordered member nations to de-register any vessel owned, operated or crewed on orders from Pyongyang. North Korean ships also cannot fly the flags of other nations to evade sanctions. Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, remains exempt from aviation sanctions and still has scheduled flights to China and Russia, as well as several domestic routes. However, the airline cannot fly to the European Union, which has banned it on safety grounds, and the United States prevents citizens from legally conducting business with the carrier.In theory, North Koreans can still cruise the country in Pyeonghwa sedans, as UN sanctions only currently ban the sale of aviation, jet and rocket fuel to Pyongyang. Crude and similar oils remain permitted - for now. The automaker, owned in a joint venture with the deceased North Korean Reverend Sun Myung Moon's influential Unification Church, only cranks out a few hundred cars a year.UN sanctions limit North Korea's diplomats abroad - at the country's Berlin embassy, for example - to only one bank account each. North Korea is also not permitted to own real estate abroad for any purposes other than consular.It's a safe bet that North Korea's marching military did not learn its moves abroad: UN sanctions ban foreign security forces from training the country's army, police or paramilitary units. The United Nations does permit medical exchanges, but otherwise allow very little assistance of scientific or technical value.Anyone wanting to own a larger-than-life Kim will have to await the end of North Korea's nuclear program. The UN sanctions currently ban the sale of statues by the nation. Author: Milan Gagnon (Reuters, UN)