France's three-and-half-hour presidential debate was held on Tuesday evening, offering outsiders, including right-winger&nbsp;Nicolas Dupont-Aignan, a rare chance to step into the electoral spotlight.Verbal exchanges focused on three topics as the candidates competed for air time to present their platforms on&nbsp;creating jobs, the republic's social welfare model and protecting the French public in the wake of terrorist attacks.Macron promoted pro-free market, pro-European views. Le Pen expressed support for a "clever" protectionism.&nbsp;"Without a clever protectionism, we are going to watch jobs being destroyed one after another"&nbsp;Le Pen said."Madame Le Pen, sorry to tell you, but you are using lies we have heard for 40 years and we were hearing from your father's mouth," Macron told the leader of the far-right National Front (FN.)Corruption allegationsCandidates also discussed the "moralization" of French politics and a number of the candidates present mentioned the legal cases involved Le Pen and Fillon.&nbsp;Le Pen claimed she was&nbsp;"politically persecuted" but as a member of the European Parliament, "I have parliamentary immunity."Fillon said he was "entitled to the presumption of innocence." He added&nbsp;"I didn't acknowledge errors. ... I'm still here and nobody will&nbsp;intimidate me. The French will make a judgment in a little less than three weeks."No dogfightThis second of three such debates was organized Tuesday by the BFM TV channel together with CNews television.Alain Weill, the director general of SFR media, which owns BFM TV, warned that the debate should not be turned "into a dogfight."France's first debate on March 20 was followed by more than 10 million French citizens. A third debate is scheduled for April 20, three days before the first round of the election to be held on the Sunday.Macron quit as economy minister in August and launched his independent presidential bid in November. The 39-year-old centrist formed his own political movement, En Marche (Forward), and is seen as a reformer. Despite having never held elected office, polls have predicted his win in the final round of voting in May. He's voiced admiration for German Chancellor Angela Merkel's refugee policy.The National Front leader has adopted a more moderate tone than her anti-Semitic father, party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen. But she still takes a hard line on immigration, saying children of irregular migrants should not have access to public education. She also wants France to withdraw from the eurozone and have a referendum on EU membership. It's predicted she'll advance to the second round. A surprise winner of the right-wing Republicans primaries, the socially conservative Fillon is seen to represent the interests of France's Catholic middle class. An admirer of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, he supports a liberal economic policy. Though Penelopegate and other scandals have marred Fillon's campaign, he has professed no wrongdoing and vowed to fight on. In a runoff against former French PM Manuel Valls in the Socialist primary, Hamon was the more left-wing choice of the two politicians. The 49-year-old supports a universal basic income and wants to shorten the traditional work week. He has also spoken in support of increased investment in renewable energy. He faces an uphill battle as many socialist politicians have voiced support for Macron.The Left Party's candidate landed fourth in the 2012 presidential elections. Melenchon, a current European Parliament member, believes the bloc's economic liberalism has stifled France. He hopes to profit from the center-left's disarray, but may split votes with socialist Hamon. Supported by the French Communist party, Melenchon advocates a shorter work week and climate protection. Author: Samantha Early Macron tippedMacron and Le Pen remain the top contenders.&nbsp;"I want to recover the optimism of the French," said 39-year-old Macron said, asserting that entrepreneurs and businesses are job creators. "We must invest to get the machine going again."The 48-year-old Le Pen&nbsp;said the answer lies in "economic patriotism", vowing to fight "out-of-control globalisation" with an anti-EU agenda. Fillon, once a frontrunner, has struggled&nbsp;over allegations that his wife, son and daughter benefitted from public monies for minimal work.&nbsp;The conservative candidate has denied any wrongdoing. During the debate Fillon called for the "largest possible global alliance, including Russia, to combat Islamist totalitarianism."Macron and Le Pen are tied on 25 percent in the April 23 first round of the election, although Macron would go on to beat Le Pen in the second round two weeks later, a Le Monde/Cevipof opinion poll and a separate Ifop poll showed on Tuesday ahead of the debate.An Ifop-Fiducial survey on Tuesday put&nbsp;Macron on 60.5 percent in the second and final round over Le Pen, who is expected to fetch around 40&nbsp;percent of the vote.Voter certainty had risen sharply, with 64 percent of those surveyed now sure of their decision - up five percent on previous samplings.That Cevipof poll saw Fillion getting 17.5 percent of first-round votes and far left candidate Jean-Luc Melnchon on 15 percent, ahead of Socialist candidate Benoit Hamon on 10 percent.Le Pen's campaign director scrutinizedAlso fresh under public gaze was Len Pen's campaign director David Rachline.Tuesday's edition of the "Canard Enchaine" satirical newspaper reported that the prosecutor in Lille was examining payroll payments from the Lille-based regional council while Rachline remained an elected councilor in Provence in southern France.Rachline replied that the probe bore the hallmark of a "political attack."In February, French judicial police had questioned Le Pen's bodyguard and chief of staff in connection with a probe into alleged misuse of European Union funds for parliamentary assistants.ipj/jm(Reuters, AP, AFP) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2XHal