World powers engaged in a series of blame trading and increasingly volatile rhetoric on Thursday in the aftermath of a suspected gas attack in the Syrian town of Khan Sheikhoun.One day after Russia vetoed a United Nations resolution put forward by the UK, US and France to blame Damascus for the attack, Moscow backed a claim by the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad that the catastrophe was the result of an airstrike against a rebel warehouse that happened to be storing chemical weapons.The Kremlin issued a statement saying that Russian President Vladimir Putin found it "unacceptable to make groundless accusations against anyone without conducting a detailed and unbiased investigation."In response, Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said it had "saddened us that this has not been understood," by Moscow, and that the Kremlin continued to ask "is Assad behind this or not?" even after it had become clear that Damascus was to blame.- Suspected chemical attack in Syria prompts international outrage- EU states pledge aid money for Syria but fail to fund war crimes investigation- Opinion: No peace under AssadAccording to activists, at least 86 people were killed due to the release of a chemical nerve agent, and hundreds more needed medical attention for respiratory problems and other severe injuries. The attack occurred in Idlib province, an area on the Turkish border mostly controlled by al-Qaeda affiliated rebels. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2apOWTurkey suspects sarin useDespite initial confusion over the exact nature of the substance, the Turkish Health Ministry said on Thursday that it had conducted autopsies on several victims and could confirm that they had been subjected to chemical weapons, most likely the internationally outlawed sarin gas. Read: Syria's chemical weapons, explainedThe French government immediately called for Assad regime to be prosecuted over the incident."These crimes must not remain unpunished one day, international justice will rule on Assad," said French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault in an interview with CNews television. German Chancellor Angela Merkel added that it was a "scandal" that the UN resolution had failed.Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of suppyling the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has assisted Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Syria: International inquiry only under our conditionsDamascus has said it is open to the idea of an international investigation, but only on very strict terms. Top diplomat Walid al-Moualem said Syria had been subjected to biased inquiries by the global community in the past, and would not allow that to happen again."It must not be politicised, it must leave from Damascus and not Turkey. We have numerous questions about this subject. When we are certain these questions are addressed with convincing answers, we will give you our response," he said.Moualem also reiterated the claim, echoed by Moscow, that the tragedy occurred because the rebels had been stockpiling sarin gas, and the Syrian army had no way of knowing it was there."I confirm to you once again that the Syrian Arab Army has not and will not use this type of weapon against our people and our children, and not even against the terrorists who kill our people," the foreign minister said. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2apa3US looks at military interventionAfter marking a monumental shift in six years of US policy calling for Assad to step down, in recent weeks top US officials such as Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and UN envoy Nikki Haley have said it was no longer a major priority.Events in&nbsp;Khan Sheikhoun.appeared to have changed matters, however. Tillerson said on Thursday that&nbsp;"there is no doubt in our minds, and the information we have supports that Syria, the Syria regime under the leadership of President Bashar al-Assad are responsible for this attack."He cautioned Moscow to "consider carefully their continued support for the Assad regime."President Donald Trump said&nbsp;that Assad had commited an "affront to humanity" and that "the message from the United States must be that this will not stand."&nbsp;An official from the Defense Department told reporters that the Pentagon was preparing plans for a range of possible military options the United States might take in response to the attack. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2amDoes,dm/rt (AFP, AP, Reuters)