Venezuela has announced that it plans to leave the Organization of American States (OAS) in response to international criticism of the administration's violent crackdown on its political opponents.Seventeen members of the 34-nation OAS bloc, including the United States, Mexico, Argentina and Brazil, voted on Wednesday to hold a special meeting of foreign ministers to discuss the Venezuelan crisis.Foreign Minister Delcy Rodriguez had earlier threatened to leave the group if that meeting at the Washington headquarters went ahead, calling it an infringement on Venezuela's sovereignty.Rodriguez said the OAS'&nbsp;action was taken to "intervene and take custody of our country, something that fortunately will never happen."Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands have taken to the streets in the weeks since to call for new elections. They show no signs of stopping.As of March, Venezuela's inflation rate surpassed 220 percent, according to the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics. The country's largest bill - the 100 bolivar note - was worth just $0.04 at the end of last year. Shopping trips now require stacks, or even bags, of cash to buy the bare necessities.An estimated 80 percent of food items and other basics were in short supply by last year. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally can enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement.In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen otherwise only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever.Electricity blackouts and fuel shortages have also driven Venezuelans to desperation. Despite Venezuela's possession of the world's largest oil reserves, drivers face long lines at the gas pump. A 50-percent collapse in oil prices in 2014 devastated the oil-dependent economy. In 2013, revenues were $80 billion. That figure dropped to $20 billion by 2016, according to IMF figures.Lower poverty rates, better education and health, and economic growth: These are all part of the legacy of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Equally part of the socialist's legacy was mismanagement. Not only did he fail to keep the state oil company up to date under increased government control, but his government also overspent despite a drop in oil production after 2006.Chavez's hand-picked successor, Nicolas Maduro, has been in office for four years and has two more to go. The opposition center-right coalition, which has controlled the National Assembly since 2015, has accused him of "abandoning his post" by failing to stem the economic devastation. It has also denounced him for rights abuses.The most recent example of Maduro's rights abuses was to silence opposition leader, Henrique Capriles, pictured above. In early April, Capriles was banned from seeking public office for 15 years due to "administrative irregularities" in his role as a governor. Capriles had been at the forefront of demands for a referendum on Maduro. The ban further inflamed tensions with protesters.Aside from protests, the opposition collected 2 million signatures for a referendum last year, roughly 10 times the number required. And in a move against the Supreme Court - and in lieu of impeachment hearings - it also held a symbolic trial for Maduro. Numerous attempts to stymie its attempts to pressure the government have only emboldened these lawmakers.Last September saw some 1 million Venezuelans march on Caracas. The opposition hopes April 19 protests - "the mother of all protests" to coincide with Maduro's fourth annivesary - will be even bigger. Meanwhile, the international community looks on with concern. The Organization for American States is mulling a suspension for Venezuela unless it calls elections to emerge from "dictatorship." Author: Kathleen Schuster Julio Borges, president of the opposition-controlled National Assembly, called the announcement "proof of the self-inflicted coup d' tat.""It is the proof of fear of a vote," he said.Violent clashes between anti-government protesters and security forces claimed a 32nd life in capital, Caracas, on Wednesday, according to some sources. According to Venezuelan officials,&nbsp;28 people have died so far this month. The latest death occurred when a 20-year-old man was hit in the head with a tear gas canister fired by the National Guard at a protest, the opposition mayor of the capital's Chacao district said.Hundreds of thousands protestHundreds of thousands of protesters&nbsp;have hit the streets over the past month, demanding elections to oust socialist President Nicolas Maduro.Maduro's opponents have called for the release of jailed activists, humanitarian aid to help offset shortages of food and medicine&nbsp;and autonomy for the opposition-led legislature.Up to 32 people have died in widespread protestsThe protests were originally triggered by a decision by the government-loyal Supreme Court&nbsp;to strip the opposition-controlled National Assembly of its last vestiges of power. That&nbsp;decision was later reversed amid a barrage of international condemnation.Maduro has accused&nbsp;the opposition of seeking a violent coup with underhanded US support, like the unsuccessful 2002 coup&nbsp;attempt against former President Hugo Chavez.Withdrawal from the OAS officially takes two years, but Foreign Minister Rodriguez said Venezuela would immediately stop participating in the bloc. Venezuela would be the first country to withdraw from the group since its founding in 1948. Caracas owes the OAS an estimated $10.5 million (9.6 million euros) in unpaid annual dues.OAS members have&nbsp;steadily increased pressure on Venezuela since Secretary General Luis Almagro issued a 75-page report in March accusing Maduro's government of systematically violating human rights and standards of democracy enshrined in the Inter-American Democratic Charter, to which Venezuela is a signatory.&nbsp;