It might look like a creature straight out of "Alien" - but the newly discovered giant shipworm, scientifically known as Kuphus polythamia, was found by a team of scientists in a marine bay on the island of Mindanao in the Philippines.&nbsp;The enigmatic shipworm has been known to exist for up to 200 years thanks to fossil evidence, but no living specimen has been caught and examined - until now."Being present for the first encounter of an animal like this is the closest I will ever get to being a 19th century naturalist," said senior author Margo Haygood from the University of Utah College of Pharmacy.The details of the findings were published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS).The exact location of the discovery remains a secret, however, so as not to attract shell collectors to the area.Not actually a wormDespite its name, the giant shipworm is actually part of the bivalve family, putting it in the same category as clams and mussels.The creature can reach a sizeable 1.55 meters (5 feet) in length and 6 centimeters (2.3 inches) in diameter - making it the longest known living bivalve.It spends the majority of its life inside a hard shell made of calcium carbonate, which it creates by secreting a special substance. It then submerges itself head-down in the mud, where it feeds on marine sediment.The head is also protected by a hard cap, which can be re-absorbed if the animal needs to grow or burrow deeper into the mud.Harsh environmentIf you thought the giant shipworm couldn't get any stranger, think again. The creature doesn't actually eat like a normal shipworm does - in fact, it hardly eats at all.Other smaller types of shipworm usually feed directly off of rotting wood that has been washed into the ocean. By contrast, the giant shipworm uses bacteria in its gills to turn the hydrogen sulfide in the water into an energy source, essentially transforming carbon dioxide into nutrients.This is similar to the process of photosynthesis used by plants.&nbsp;Due to lack of use,&nbsp;the creature's digestive system has shrunk considerably.The giant shipworm has adapted to life in a harsh environment that would prove noxious for most life forms, taking advantage of the rich organic mud.im/sadWith such a culinary name and its astonishing appearance, sea lovers probably do not need any further argument to be amazed. To top it off, it seems that this jellyfish's sting has very little or no effect on humans. In contrast to most jellyfish, this one can move on its own, and, surprisingly, it is one of the most common jellyfish in the Mediterranean Sea.When you feel something unfamiliar touching your toes, it might be comforting to think it's just plants - but that's not always the case. One of the plant-like creatures living on the bottom of the sea is this yellow cluster anemone, whose polyps can have up to 36 tentacles each. In the Mediterranean, this species often appears in dense agglomerations close to sponges, tunicates and algae.Although it's very attractive for divers, this marine worm of about 15 centimeters - which can reach up to 35 centimeters - does not like to be disturbed. If so, its bristles can penetrate flesh and produce an intense irritation to the skin. Its vivid combination of colors is a warning for those in the know, but in case the message is still unclear, its name spells it out: bearded fireworm.The 'wings' of the flying gurnard are, in reality, very large pectoral fins, which enable the fish to glide above the water for short distances. Disappointingly, the flying gurnard does not fly as such; it is mainly a bottom-dwelling fish and only extend its fins when troubled or in need of scaring predators. This produces a beautiful spectacle of bright and fluorescent colors.This three-centimeter flatworm is one of the enigmatic wonders that nature has to offer us. Its oval, flat body has a blue tone, a yellow central longitudinal band and dozens of white stripes - it can also appear in pink. Two tentacles on its head are reminiscent of a small mammal's ears or to a snail's horns. Its diet, sexuality and regeneration methods are also part of its unusual features.Some of the creatures living here are far more famous - but no less outstanding. The loggerhead is the most common sea turtle in the Mediterranean - but tourism and getting caught in fishing nets mean it's endangered. Their large heads, which support powerful jaws and enable them to feed on hard-shelled prey, justify their name. But in some languages they are known as the 'foolish turtles'.Even with newly purchased professional goggles, it would be hard to notice this fish. But it is somewhere there, just under our feet. The turbot is a flat fish with both eyes on the left side of its - surely flat - head. It likes blending in with the sand and mud on the sea bed, but despite its camouflage, it is sought by fishermen around the world, as it is considered a highly-prized species.There are not many natural dangers in the coastal areas of the Mediterranean Sea, and that might be the reason why jellyfish create such a panic. But despite the bad rap these annoying bathing companions receive , they are actually remarkable animals. As an example, the compass jellyfish has 24 impressive tentacles and, upon maturity, it changes sexual functions from male to female.The spiny starfish can reach an impressive diameter of 70 centimeters, even though the central disk is relatively small. Each of its five arms has three longitudinal rows of purple spines, each surrounded by a white cushion. Despite being native to the eastern Atlantic Ocean, its habitat range extends from Iceland to the Mediterranean Sea and the Azores.Not everything is peace and love under the Mediterranean Sea. The small red scorpion fish is a very venemous species due to its sharp spines coated with mucus. It is mainly found in rocky littoral habitats, even though sometimes it can be found up to 700 meters under the sea. It is carnivorous and feeds on small fish and crustaceans - of course, one would expect no less from a scorpion fish! Author: Irene Banos Ruiz