US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said he hoped to clear up "sharp differences" during bilateral talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov on Wednesday. Lavrov, for his part, said he wanted to clear up the "ambiguous" and "contradictory" policies from the White House regarding Syria.The Kremlin's top diplomat said that it was difficult to understand the "real intentions" of President Donald Trump, who praised Russia during his election campaign but has behaved coldly towards Moscow in recent weeks.Furthermore, both Tillerson and US envoy to the United Nations Nikki Haley had to walk back statements saying it wasn't the highest priority to remove Syrian President Bashar al-Assad after a US airstrike against a Syrian air base last week. Trump launched the strike in response to a suspected gas attack, in which Assad's troops reportedly killed 86 people and injured hundreds more.Trump then called Assad "an animal" and called for his ouster. He also accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of "backing an evil person." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2b5xDLavrov: US strike unlawful"We have seen very alarming actions recently with an unlawful attack against Syria," Lavrov said. "We consider it of utmostimportance to prevent the risks of replay of similar action in the future."After the talks, the Secretary of State said the pair had a "very open, candid and frank exchange" that served to "clarify areas of common objectives," but admitted that differences remained.Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.In April the US launched a missile strike against a Syrian air-base in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on civilians. The attacked marked a sharp turn-around in US Syrian policy, with President Donald Trump long advocating against direct action against the Syrian regime.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has aided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Putin: US-Russian relations worse than beforePutin also commented on Tillerson's visit, saying he thought relations between Moscow and Washington had deteriorated during the Trump administration, contrary to expectations."It can be said that the level of trust at the working level, especially at the military level, has not become better but most likely has degraded," Putin told state media.Russia has supported President Assad's claim that the gas attack was the result of Islamist rebels stockpiling the nerve agent Sarin, and that it was released when government troops attacked one of their warehouses. Putin added on Wednesday that Assad had made good on his promise to dispose of all his chemical weapons "so far as we know."When asked if he might meet with Tillerson personally before he leaves Moscow, Putin said it was "definitely a possibility."es/rt (AP, Reuters)