US State Secretary Rex Tillerson on Wednesday said US-Russia relations are at a "low point" after meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.Tensions&nbsp;between Moscow and Washington have been exacerbated by US President Donald Trump's order to launch cruise missiles against a Syrian military facility believed to be the launch pad for a chemical weapons attack that killed 87 civilians, including 31 children."I expressed the view that the current state of US-Russia relations is at a low point. There is a low level of trust between our two countries. The world's two foremost nuclear powers cannot have this kind of relationship," Tillerson told reporters after the meeting.Lavrov alleged that attempts had been made to "prevent us from cooperating and even raise tensions," without referring to the catalyst."We believe that this approach is short-sighted, particularly because history has shown that when Moscow and Washington cooperate, not only our peoples but the whole world benefits from it," he added.Lavrov and Tillerson announced the establishment of a task force comprising foreign policy officials tasked with&nbsp;addressing issues and making progress to stabilizing relations. But the fate of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad remained a divider, with both sides backing opposite visions.In April, US forces attacked a Syrian air base with cruise missiles in retaliation for a deadly chemical weapons attack on Syrian civilians. The US attack killed several Syrian soldiers and almost completely destroyed the base.The air base Al-Shairat looked like this before 59 Tomahawk rockets were fired at the site. US President Donald Trump said this was the base from which the poison gas attack was flown out of on Tuesday. The strike aimed to destroy airplanes as well as prevent take-offs and landings.The cruise missiles were launched from the USS Porter and USS Ross warships stationed in the Mediterranean Sea. It was the first time US forces had directly attacked government forces in the six-year civil war. Previous attacks in Syria targeted the so-called "Islamic State."For Trump, the use of chemical weapons was a turning point in his attitude towards the Syrian conflict. After an even bigger chemical attack in August 2013, which killed several hundred people, he warned then-President Barack Obama against retaliating against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad."When the United Nations consistently fails in its duty to act collectively, there are times in the life of states that we are compelled to take our own action," US Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said on Wednesday, as she held up photographs of lifeless victims, including children.On Tuesday morning a residential district in Chan Sheikhun in Idlib province was bombed and poison gas was released. At least 70 people died in the attack, but responsibility is still unclear.Syria: War crimes charges 'possible'Tillerson told reporters that the "reign of the Assad family is coming to an end, and they have again brought this on themselves with their conduct" over the course of the conflict."Russia as their closest ally in the conflict perhaps has the best means of helping Assad recognize this reality," he said, adding that the Syrian president's departure should be done in "an orderly way."Lavrov noted that Assad's fate "is one of the issues that Russia and the United States view differently," offering examples in which regime change failed and created further chaos in conflict-stricken countries, including Iraq and Libya.Russia joined the Syrian conflict in September 2015, providing air support for Syrian government forces it says are fighting terrorist groups in the country. However, Moscow's involvement was largely seen as a means to bolster Assad's regime amid a protracted, multi-faceted conflict.Asked about possible war crimes charges for Assad, Tillerson said mounting evidence that Assad's regime has engaged in war crimes could reach a threshold to bring a case against the Syrian president.In Syria, more than 300,000 people have been killed and half the population displaced since 2011, when government forces launched a brutal crackdown against peaceful protesters calling for Assad to release political prisoners and step down.Russia vetoes UN chemical weapons probeMeanwhile in New York, Russia voted against a US-backed resolution to investigate a suspected chemical weapons attack in the Syrian province of Idlib.Vladimir Safronkov, Russia's deputy ambassador to the UN, said the resolution did "not serve a useful purpose," minutes after Lavrov had called for an "independent" probe into the attack.Matthew Rycroft, the UK's ambassador to the UN, criticized Russia's move in a statement following the vote, saying it undermined international attempts at justice."This is the eight time Russia has used its veto to protect the Syrian regime," Rycroft said. "Russia cannot possibly claim that it opposes the use of chemical weapons."Earlier, the US ambassador to the UN Nikki Hailey addressed her Russian colleagues, saying: "You are isolating yourselves from the international community every time one of Assad's planes drop another barrel bomb on civilians and every time Assad tries to starve another community to death."Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.In April the US launched a missile strike against a Syrian air-base in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on civilians. The attacked marked a sharp turn-around in US Syrian policy, with President Donald Trump long advocating against direct action against the Syrian regime.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has aided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher ls/kms (Reuters, AFP, AP, dpa)