The US military has begun deploying parts of the controversial Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) missile system&nbsp;at&nbsp;its site in South Korea.On Wednesday, six trailers carrying parts of the THAAD system arrived at a former golf course in the county of Seongju in the country's&nbsp;southern region, Yonhap news agency and YTN television reported.&nbsp;Television footage showed military trailers carrying equipment, including what appeared to be launch canisters, being driven into the planned THAAD battery site, about 250 kilometers (155 miles) south of Seoul.&nbsp;South Korea's Defense Ministry confirmed the start of the full-scale deployment, saying it would be complete by the end of the year."South Korea and the United States have been working to secure an early operational capability of the THAAD system in response to North Korea's advancing nuclear and missile threat," the Defense Ministry said in a statement.Local journalists posted images of the trucks online.The arrival sparked clashes between locals and police, Yonhap reported. Around 2,000 people rallied with banners reading: "No THAAD but peace," while riot police were mobilized to maintain order and stop protesters reaching the installation site.South Korean Army soldiers rappel down during a South Korea-U.S. joint military live-fire drill at Seungjin Fire Training Field in Pocheon, South Korea, near the border with North Korea. In Pocheon, 65 kilometers northeast of Seoul, South Korea s self-propelled guns, as well as multiple rocket launchers, fired off dozens of volleys toward mock targets. South Korean K1A2 tanks fire live rounds at a training field near the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas. Some 100 artillery pieces, 90 armoured vehicles and 50 aircraft, as well as 2,000 South Korean and US troops, the defence ministry said.The US has begun deploying parts of the controversial Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) missile system at its site in South Korea. THAAD is designed to intercept and destroy short and medium-range ballistic missiles during their final phase of flight. The US and South Korea are deploying the missile system in response to the ongoing development of North Korea's ballistic missile program.On the other side of the border in North Korea, leader Kim Jong-Un oversaw the country's largest-ever firing drill, which saw more than 300 large-calibre self-propelled guns firing simultaneously and torpedo attacks by submarines, state-run KCNA agency said. The drill marked the 85th anniversary of the founding of the North Korea's armed forces, and heightened international worries that it may be preparing another nuclear test. Author: Nadine Berghausen The US and South Korea are deploying the missile system in response to the ongoing development of North Korea's ballistic missile program, which has continued despite multiple sets of United Nations sanctions.The system is intended to intercept&nbsp;and destroy&nbsp;short and medium-range ballistic missiles during their final phase of flight.China 'strongly opposed' to deploymentThe USS Michigan arrived at a naval base in Busan, South Korea on TuesdayWashington and Seoul agreed to an early rollout of the THAAD system after talks earlier this month between the South's acting president and visiting US Vice President Mike Pence.China said it was strongly opposed to the deployment, sanctioning South Korean firms in response. It called for calm on the Korean peninsula amid the&nbsp;deployment of a US carrier group to the region."[China] hopes that all relevant sides exercise restraint, and avoid doing anything to worsen the tense situation on the peninsula," Chinese President Xi Jinping&nbsp;was paraphrased as saying in a statement from the Chinese Foreign Ministry .China said THAAD would do little to dissuade North Korea, but would destabilize the regional security balance while its&nbsp;powerful radar could penetrate China's territory and undermine its security.&nbsp;In February, China banned all coal imports from North Korea. Under tight conditions, North Korea may still export $400.87 million (374 million euros) or 7.5 million metric tons of coal per year, whichever is less. Pictured here is China's Liaoning Greenland Energy Coal Co. in Dandong, on the border with North Korea. North Korea is prohibited from opening banks abroad, and UN member states are prohibited from operating financial institutions on Pyongyang's behalf. Any dealings that might help North Korea skirt the sanctions are banned, and UN member states must expel and repatriate anyone working on the regime's financial behalf.This North Korean cargo ship found itself boarded for inspection in the Philippines in March 2016 after the United Nations ordered member nations to de-register any vessel owned, operated or crewed on orders from Pyongyang. North Korean ships also cannot fly the flags of other nations to evade sanctions. Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, remains exempt from aviation sanctions and still has scheduled flights to China and Russia, as well as several domestic routes. However, the airline cannot fly to the European Union, which has banned it on safety grounds, and the United States prevents citizens from legally conducting business with the carrier.In theory, North Koreans can still cruise the country in Pyeonghwa sedans, as UN sanctions only currently ban the sale of aviation, jet and rocket fuel to Pyongyang. Crude and similar oils remain permitted - for now. The automaker, owned in a joint venture with the deceased North Korean Reverend Sun Myung Moon's influential Unification Church, only cranks out a few hundred cars a year.UN sanctions limit North Korea's diplomats abroad - at the country's Berlin embassy, for example - to only one bank account each. North Korea is also not permitted to own real estate abroad for any purposes other than consular.It's a safe bet that North Korea's marching military did not learn its moves abroad: UN sanctions ban foreign security forces from training the country's army, police or paramilitary units. The United Nations does permit medical exchanges, but otherwise allow very little assistance of scientific or technical value.Anyone wanting to own a larger-than-life Kim will have to await the end of North Korea's nuclear program. The UN sanctions currently ban the sale of statues by the nation. Author: Milan Gagnon (Reuters, UN) International concerns were heightened in recent weeks with fears the North could soon carry out another nuclear test or missile launch, in defiance of United Nations sanctions.&nbsp;North Korea announced&nbsp;on Wednesday that it had conducted its "largest-ever" live-fire drill to mark the 85th founding anniversary of its military, with more than 300 large-caliber, self-propelled artillery guns demonstrating their fire power at an event on its east coast.On Wednesday, US President Donald Trump is scheduled to discuss North Korea in Washington with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary James Mattis. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2brrl