European Union lawmakers could summon French far-right presidential candidate Marine Le&nbsp;Pen to discuss the lifting of her immunity over the alleged misuse of European Union money, before the second round of the French election on May 7, an influential legislator said on Saturday."The legal affairs committee has agreed that Le Pen will be summoned for a hearing on the first possible date in May," Laura Ferrara, the deputy chair of the committee, told Reuters.Read: French presidential elections: 'We certainly can expect a surprise'Le Pen denounces legal proceedingsFerrara's&nbsp;comments on Saturday follow a request from&nbsp;French judges on Friday for the European Parliament to lift Le Pen's parliamentary immunity to permit further investigations over alleged misuse of funds to pay for party assistants.Le Pen, leader of the far-right National Front (FN),&nbsp;has denounced legal proceedings against her as political interference.Read: Even election augur can't predict how France will vote Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2b1hSBefore stripping a lawmaker of their immunity, the EU parliament's legal affairs committee usually arranges a hearing with the accused, with an actual decision following&nbsp;a few months later.Ferrara, who is a member of the Italian eurosceptic 5 Star Movement, said that Le Pen may decide not to appear before the parliamentary committee.Sanctions already in placeThe European Parliament has already sanctioned Le Pen for misusing EU funds. Since February the far-right nationalist's monthly salary as an MEP has been cut by half to around 3,000 euros ($3,184) and other allowances have been withdrawn. The current investigation aims&nbsp;at establish&nbsp;whether other sanctions are warranted.Read: Is France ready for Marine Le Pen?Last month, Le Pen&nbsp;was also stripped of her parliamentary immunity in a separate case, allowing&nbsp;a Paris court to prosecute her for posting images of "Islamic State" (IS) brutality on Twitter in 2015. In France, the offence can&nbsp;carry a penalty of three years in prison and a fine of 75,000 euros ($79,567).Macron leading in opinion pollsDogged by scandal, Le Pen's ratings in opinion polls have suffered in recent weeks. A&nbsp;BVA poll published on Friday sees Le Pen make the second round of the presidential election with 22 percent of the vote. A runoff against independent Emmanuel Macron, however, would&nbsp;see Le Pen lose&nbsp;with 36 percent.Macron quit as economy minister in August and launched his independent presidential bid in November. The 39-year-old centrist formed his own political movement, En Marche (Forward), and is seen as a reformer. Despite having never held elected office, polls have predicted his win in the final round of voting in May. He's voiced admiration for German Chancellor Angela Merkel's refugee policy.The National Front leader has adopted a more moderate tone than her anti-Semitic father, party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen. But she still takes a hard line on immigration, saying children of irregular migrants should not have access to public education. She also wants France to withdraw from the eurozone and have a referendum on EU membership. It's predicted she'll advance to the second round. A surprise winner of the right-wing Republicans primaries, the socially conservative Fillon is seen to represent the interests of France's Catholic middle class. An admirer of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, he supports a liberal economic policy. Though Penelopegate and other scandals have marred Fillon's campaign, he has professed no wrongdoing and vowed to fight on. In a runoff against former French PM Manuel Valls in the Socialist primary, Hamon was the more left-wing choice of the two politicians. The 49-year-old supports a universal basic income and wants to shorten the traditional work week. He has also spoken in support of increased investment in renewable energy. He faces an uphill battle as many socialist politicians have voiced support for Macron.The Left Party's candidate landed fourth in the 2012 presidential elections. Melenchon, a current European Parliament member, believes the bloc's economic liberalism has stifled France. He hopes to profit from the center-left's disarray, but may split votes with socialist Hamon. Supported by the French Communist party, Melenchon advocates a shorter work week and climate protection. Author: Samantha Early