The winners of this year's prestigious Goldman Environmental Prize have been announced in San Francisco, honoring their work in a range of environmental fields across the world's six inhabited continental regions.Recipients receive a monetary award of USD $175,000 (161,200 euros) and are selected by an international jury based on nominations submitted by a network of environmental organizations and individuals. The prize was created in 1990 by philanthropists Richard N. Goldman and his wife, Rhonda H. Goldman.David vs. GoliathRodrigue Katemno from the Democratic Republic of the Congo was honored this year for risking his life to document and expose information concerning pervasive corruption in ongoing attempts to drill for oil in Virunga National Park. His work led to widespread public backlash, ultimately forcing British oil company Soco to withdraw from its oil exploration plans.Virunga National Park is home to a great range of biodiversity and is a vital habitat for mountain gorillas A former child solider, Katemno has experienced numerous violent setbacks during his fight to protect the wildlife in the UNESCO World Heritage Site, including a stint in prison in 2013 where he was tortured for 17 days and subjected to mock executions.A member of the DRC wildlife authority, he has since been posted to Upemba National Park for his own safety, however still faces threats from illegal miners who seek to exploit the region's natural resources, including gold, emerald and coltan.&nbsp;South American recipient Rodrigo Tot is an indigenous Guatemalan leader who also fought a successful legal battle on behalf of his community, ordering the government to issue official land titles to the Q'eqchi people and halt the expansion of environmentally destructive nickel mining.&nbsp;Guatemalan pastor Rodrigo Tot has been recognized for defending the lands of his indigenous Q'eqchi community against environmentally destructive miningThe evangelical pastor says his life been threatened multiple times as a result of his work; in 2012 the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights ordered the Guatemalan government to offer protection to Tot and his lawyer, however the request was ignored.&nbsp;In India, Prafulla Samantara was recognized for his 12-year-long fight to ensure the land rights of the 8,000-member indigenous Dongria Kondh tribe, ultimately preventing the construction of an open-pit aluminum coal mine in the thick forestlands of the Niyamgiri Hills, which is also home to the endangered Bengal tiger and is a vital migration corridor for elephants.Samantara has been kidnapped and assaulted numerous times for what his opponents call&nbsp;his 'anti-development' stance.Prafulla Samantara has been recognized for his marathon legal battle to protect India's Niyamgiri Hills region from an open-pit aluminum coal mineOther winners include Slovenian organic farmer Uro Macerl who successfully stopped a cement kiln from burning hazardous industrial waste, community activist mark! Lopez&nbsp;who persuaded the state of California to perform lead testing on homes which had been contaminated by a battery smelter, and Wendy Bowman, who for 30 years&nbsp;refused to let a multinational mining company take over her farm in Australia's Hunter Valley region.Activists under threat of violenceDespite widespread international support for their work, violence against environmental activists has continued to increase around the world.Honduran activist and 2015 recipient of the Goldman Environmental Prize, Berta Caceres, was killed in March 2016Two previous recipients of the Goldman Prize were killed for their efforts against environmental destruction: Mexican anti-logging campaigner Isidro Baldenegro was assassinated by gunmen in January and Honduran indigenous rights activist Berta Caceres was killed last year."That environmentalists are under threat is a reflection of what's happening in the world right now," acting director of the Goldman Prize, Lorrae Rominger, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation."Activists fighting very powerful interests are being targeted."The Goldman Prize committee is currently investigating possible measures which will help winners continue their environmental work safely.On July 10, 1985, the French secret service used underwater mines to sink the "Rainbow Warrior," killing Greenpeace photographer Fernando Pereira. The ship was supposed to put out from New Zealand to protest nuclear testing at Mururoa atoll. The event spurred on anti-nuclear activism. Today, the wreck rests in the Matauri bay and is a popular diving destination.The book "Silent Spring," written by biologist Rachel Carson, was published in 1962. She described the effects of pesticides on plants, animals and humans - with success: The bestseller ultimately led to banning of the insecticide DDT, which had worked its way up the food chain to harm the ecosystem. The book is often considered to have inspired the global environmental movement.A United Nations Conference 1972 in Stockholm was the first international summit ever on the environment, and is considered the starting point for international environmental policy. In 1997, the Kyoto Protocol was signed at the 3rd UN Conference on Climate Change. It was the first binding climate agreement by industrialized nations to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.In elections on March 6, 1983, the Green Party (today: B ndnis 90/Die Gr nen) in Germany successfully entered in the German Parliament. Then ridiculed, now it has become a standard element of politics in many countries across Europe. The Green Party has been behind several environmental pushes: on June 30, 2011, Germany set a major milestone by deciding to phase out nuclear power.In 1984, a cloud of gas escaped from a chemical plant in Bhopal, India. The chemicals killed from 3,800 to 25,000, and injured as many as half a million people. The disaster is a terrible case study for the burgeoning environmental justice movement, where marginalized communities are standing up against dangerous pollution.The Chernobyl nuclear power plant in the former Soviet Union was site of one of the worst nuclear disasters in history. On April 26, 1986, it came to the worst-case scenario: a core meltdown. Massive amounts of radiation were released into the environment. This led to a reactivation of the global anti-nuclear movement.In 1989, the "Exxon Valdez" oil tanker ran aground in Prince William Sound, Alaska. More than 252,000 barrels of oil flowed out, dirtying the coast and killing innumerable marine animals. Aside from raising environmental awareness, it's served as a warning lesson on the dangers of drilling in the Arctic.Edward Abbey inspired so-called direct action for environmental causes with his 1975 book "The Monkey Wrench Gang." In it, activists employ sabotage to hinder environmental destruction. By 1980, the real-life movement Earth First! was formed, which focuses on nonviolent direct action. The movement continues, with active groups around the world today.In 1998, the Earth Liberation Front (ELF) carried out an arson attack on a ski resort in Vail, Colorado, in direct action against destruction of endangered lynx habitat. This heralded the arrival of "eco-terrorism" in the United States - a term some describe as loaded. The FBI has classified the ELF as "domestic terror threat number one."In 2007, the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to former US Vice President Al Gore and the IPCC. They were honored for their efforts to increase and spread knowledge about the manmade climate change. "They placed the basis for global climate action," the Nobel Prize Committee said. Countries the world over are aiming for a new climate treaty at a conference in Paris this December. Author: Hannah Fuchs &nbsp;