The Republic of Moldova will elect a new president on Sunday. Now, for the first time in 15 years, it will be the people who decide. (28.10.2016) Moldova's pro-Moscow candidate has called for greater ties with its former Soviet ruler, Russia. But his pro-EU rival has made tackling corruption and closer ties with Europe a priority. (13.11.2016) No candidate won an absolute majority in Moldova's presidential election. Now there will be a runoff. The result is a major challenge for pro-European forces, says DW's Robert Schwartz. (01.11.2016) Brussels needed to do much more to control the flow of Western money in Moldova, President Igor Dodon told the Wednesday edition of the German paper.According to Dodon, the EU gave the ex-Soviet state over 782 million euros ($835 million) between 2007 and 2015."At least one half of that was lost through murky channels. Corrupt members of various, supposedly pro-EU governments in my country have stolen it," he said in an interview published in German. In his previous role as a head of an opposition party, Dodon "repeatedly raised the issues with the representatives of Brussels, but the EU-Commissionaires in charge of this were not concerned," he said.Moldova, a Romanian-speaking landlocked state of some 3.5 million, is among the poorest countries in Eastern Europe. The 42-year-old Dodon assumed office in December last year, after winning the election on a pro-Russian platform.The Chisinau government, however, remains dominated by pro-Western factions. The cabinet concluded an association agreement with the EU last year.Buying 'castles' in GermanyDespite the aid, political agreements and visa liberalization granted by Brussels, the approval rate for the EU sank from 70 to 38 percent in the last 10 years, Dodon said in his interview."This happened because the money did not reach the people. Our citizens have seen various pro-Western governments entangled in corruption scandals," he said. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1ExdxSuch exploits were partly financed by German taxpayers, the president pointed out."How should German citizens feel, living in their simple apartments, when their tax money goes to corrupt politicians in the Republic of Moldova, who then use it to buy castles in Germany?" he asked.Focus on the West a 'mistake'Commenting on the Association Agreement with the EU, Dodon said that he would like to renegotiate the terms of it with Moscow's participation. He also lauded the Eurasian Economic Union (EEU), an international free trade organization dominated by Russia."Personally, I believe that we would benefit more from tighter relations with the Eurasian Union. Moldova would profit from entering EEU in the long run," he said.Chisinau should work both with the East and the West, according to Dodon."We have been focusing exclusively on the West in the last seven years. That was a big mistake," he said. "We need a strategic partnership with Russia."Tanya moved to Italy five years ago where she works as a caregiver for the elderly and earns about 850 euros ($960) a month. But her three daughters - Karolina, Sabrina and Olga - were left behind in Moldova. They were eight, nine and 12 years old, respectively, when she left.The girls initially lived alone at first, even though the oldest was only 12 years old. After a time, they began living with various people, to whom their mother regularly sent money.Now the eldest daughter, Olga, is finishing high school in Chisinau, while Sabrina and Karolina have joined their mother in Italy.For the past seven years, Katalina's parents have barely been home. Her parents found jobs in Moscow and later moved to Italy after receiving work visas. Katalina's grandmother lived in a different village, but she eventually moved in with Katalina and her brother, Victor, to look after them.Ottilia was barely a year old when her parents left Moldova. Her mother and father paid 4,000 euros each to get into Italy without proper documents. The girl didn't see them for five years and lived with her grandmother, who she called "mom." A year ago, Ottilia's parents managed to get a residence permit in Italy and brought their daughter to live with them.Lilia moved to the West with her husband eight years ago. The couple had to work hard to repay the debt they took on to pay for the illegal border-crossing. Their daughters Nadia and Alina were nine and six at the time.Lilia sent parcels to her children three times a month. The family is reunited now, but it has come at a high price - the "visas" for the children cost 1,500 euros each.German photographer Andrea Diefenbach tells the story of Moldovan children in her book "Country without parents," published in German by Kehrer-Verlag. Author: Efim Schuhmann and Flora Murphy