Marco G. was found guilty of attempted murder after an unsuccessful&nbsp;bomb attack on the main train station in Bonn and has been given a life sentence. The higher regional court in Dusseldorf took the extra step of attributing a severe degree of guilt in the conviction, making the sentence the highest possible in Germany and eliminating the possibility of release after 15 years.The incident occurred in December, 2012 and&nbsp;sparked a city-wide manhunt in Bonn. The bomb did not explode, but according to investigators, the bomb only failed to detonate due to a technical defect. During the trial, defense lawyers brought up the fact that a detonator had never been found.Three additional defendants, in addition to the 29-year-old Marco G., were found guilty of plotting an&nbsp;assassination attempt on a politician from a far-right party&nbsp;and given sentences between nine-and-a-half and 12 years. This was less than the 11-14 years sought by prosecutors for the remaining three defendants,&nbsp;Enea B. (46), Koray D. (28) und Tayfun S. (27).The target of the assassination was the former leader -&nbsp;Markus Beisicht -&nbsp;of the extreme right-wing PRO NRW movement, a group with a clear anti-Islam message.The plots were treated as Islamist-motivated acts of terror, and all four men were also found guilty of forming a terrorist group.Bonn's central train stationProsecutors argued that shortly after the failed bomb attempt, Marco G. founded a domestic terror organization that was inspired by an audio recording of an Islamist movement in Uzbekistan. The assassination attempt was in motion in March, 2013 in Leverkusen, but was foiled by police who had been monitoring the defendants for some time.Defense lawyers for the four men argued that there was insufficient evidence to convict them and had pursued an acquittal.The four men have been in pretrial custody for over four years. The trial, which had been particularly complex due to the two different charges, stretched over 155 days and heard testimony from 157 witnesses.mz/msh (dpa)Perhaps best known as composer Ludwig van Beethoven's birthplace, Bonn was transformed into the heart of German political life four years after World War II when it was made West Germany's provisional capital. But as Germany began the years-long process of reunification in the 1990s, the government was set to move to Berlin.On June 20, 1991, Germany's lower house of parliament, the Bundestag, passed legislation to move itself, along with other government bodies, to Berlin. Part of the deal stipulated that a handful of ministries would remain in Bonn, including defense and economic cooperation.The move to Berlin was a drawn-out process, one that Bonn's residents feared might negate the city's relevance in Germany's political life. However, the 1991 legislation provided nearly 1.5 billion euros ($1.7 billion) to the city to lessen the impact of the move.Bonn's diplomatic presence was most hit by the transfer of Germany's seat of government. The majority of diplomatic missions and embassies in Germany moved to Berlin following reunification. However, the former building of Germany's foreign ministry still houses a division of the justice ministry.But how did business fare in the wake of the move? Jan Erik Ruelfs of Foto Brell, a store that opened in Bonn after World War II to sell second-hand cameras, told DW that although the move meant a loss in his diplomatic clientele, it didn't have a significant impact on business. "We still print the same quantity of photographs now as we did in the 1980s and 1990s"A worker at the Bonn Minster, one of Germany's oldest Catholic churches, described the transfer of the capital as "uninteresting." She said the move had had no impact on the number of visitors and worshipers who frequent the church.The Hofgarten in front of the University of Bonn was the site of some of West Germany's biggest demonstrations. In 1979, more than 100,000 people joined an anti-nuclear protest following the Three Mile Island nuclear accident in the US. Today, the park is frequented by students, tourists and residents of Bonn.The West German cabinet in 1969 decided that the Palais Schaumburg manor was insufficient for the needs of the chancellor, and decided to construct a new building. In 1976, Chancellor Helmut Schmidt became the first occupant of the new Chancellery. The building served as the chancellor's office and residence until 1999, when the move to Berlin was completed.The former Bundestag office building in Bonn now belongs to the UN. It hosts 18 organizations and agencies, including the Secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. It is known as "Langer (Tall) Eugen," a nod to former Bundestag President Eugen Gerstenmaier. The building behind it was planned to provide further government offices - but is now home to Deutsche Welle. Author: Lewis Sanders IV