British Prime Minister Theresa May on Tuesday announced her intention to pursue snap elections for June 8 in a bid to shore up support for her vision on&nbsp;the UK's future.May criticized opposition parties for challenging her government's vision for the UK's departure from the EU, commonly referred to as "Brexit.""If we do not hold a general election now, their game-playing will continue," she said. "I have now concluded that the only way to guarantee certaintly is to hold this election, and seek your support to take this decision."The British premier said she would seek to formalize the general election process in parliament on Wednesday.&nbsp;Under Britain's legal system, the premier must gain the approval of two-thirds of lawmakers in parliament before proceeding with the election.May inherited the office of premier after former Prime Minister David Cameron resigned in the wake of last year's Brexit&nbsp;referendum. The June election would mark her first attempt to seek a mandate as premier.'Brexit' mandateSteven Fielding, professor political history at the University of Nottingham, told DW that the general election works in her favour as "it will give her much greater authority," especially if Conservatives do well.Fielding added that by gaining more seats in parliament, it would allow May to conduct the Brexit negotiations with a firm hand, knowing that the legislator backs her."She'll be able to secure her own positions without fearing that parliament might reject them, so there will be no danger when negotiations conclude that the decision will be endorsed by parliament," Fielding said.In March, May&nbsp;triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, effectively starting the clock on two years of negotiations to formally leave the EU.'Disastrous for the people'In June 2016, British citizens narrowly voted in favor of the UK leaving the 28-nation bloc. In her statement on Tuesday, May vowed to take control of "our own money, our own laws,&nbsp;our own borders."But she has faced a series of challenges across the country, most notably Scottish&nbsp;First Minister Nicola&nbsp;Sturgeon's request for a second independence vote."The Tories see a chance to move the UK to the right, force through a hard Brexit and impose deeper cuts. Let's stand up for Scotland," Sturgeon said in a tweet after May's announcement.Irish republican party Sinn Fein announced it would seek a special status in the EU for Northern Island."Sinn Fein opposed Brexit because it will be disastrous for the people of Ireland, our economy and our public services," said Michelle O'Neill, who leads the party in Northern Island."The people of the North clearly voted to see their future in the European Union in the referendum last June," she added, referring to the 56 percent of citizens in Northern Ireland who voted to remain in the bloc.Alternatives emergeLabour Party&nbsp;leader Jeremy Corbyn &nbsp;welcomed May's decision, saying "Labour will be offering the country an effective alternative.""In the last couple of weeks, Labour has set out policies that offer a clear and credible choice for the country. We look forward to showing how Labour will stand up for the people of Britain," Corbyn said.Liberal Democrats Tim Farron said only his pro-European party could "prevent a Conservative majority.""If you want to avoid a disastrous Hard Brexit. If you want to keep Britain in the Single Market. If you want a Britain that is open, tolerant and united, this is your chance," Farron said in a statement.Meanwhile, European Council Donald Tusk said he had a "good phone call" with May following her announcement.&nbsp;Tusk's spokesman later said that the elections "do not change our EU27 plans," referring to the bloc's timetable for preparing Brexit negotiations.German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel said he hopes the elections will lead to more transparency and accountability during the negotiations. Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon gives any existing member of the European Union the right to quit unilaterally and outlines the procedure for doing so. It gives the state concerned two years to negotiate a deal for its exit. Once Article 50 is triggered, it cannot be stopped, except by the unanimous consent of all member states. There are five elements in Article 50. They state that the exiting country must notify the European Council formally and that it is given a two-year period to reach an agreement. Article 50 also states that the country concerned cannot take part in EU s internal discussions about its departure. The exit deal must be approved by a "qualified majority" and must also get the backing of MEPs.The UK decided in favor of leaving the EU in a referendum in June 2016. After lengthy parliamentary debates and legal procedures, Prime Minister Theresa May looks all set to send a formal letter of notification to EU President Donald Tusk on March 29, which will trigger Article 50. Officials in Brussels have already outlined a divorce bill for Britain of between 55 and 60 billion euros.The EU is expected to give a first response later this week. A summit of EU leaders on April 29 is then to lay down guidelines for the Brexit talks, which are expected to start in May or June. The hardest part of the negotiations will be determining the status of more than a million Britons living in other parts of the EU and of some 3 million EU citizens in Britain, and working out trade details.By autumn this year, the UK government is expected to introduce legislation to leave the EU and put all existing EU laws into British law - the Great Repeal Bill. The possible move will annul the 1972 European Communities Act (ECA), which gives EU law instant effect in the UK, and give parliament the power to absorb parts of EU legislation into UK law, scrapping elements it does not want to keep.EU leaders have said they want to conclude the talks within 18 months to allow the terms of the exit to be ratified by UK and the European Parliaments as well as the EU states. If no agreement is reached in two years and no extension is agreed, the UK automatically leaves the EU and all existing agreements.The fifth paragraph of Article 50 raises the possibility of a state wanting to rejoin the EU after having left it. This would be considered under Article 49. Author: Aasim Saleem ls/jm (AP, Reuters, dpa)