You can't envy Hans-Joachim Watzke right now. Anyone who studied the Borussia Dortmund chairman's facial expressions on Tuesday evening could quickly conclude that these must be among the most trying times that a football official can experience: first the fallout from his critical comments about RB Leipzig, then the continual quarrels with Dortmund's hardcore "ultra" fans (who can hardly be called fans), and now this attack on his own team. Watzke is carrying a lot of responsibility, and not with the greatest of ease.Offering advice from the outside can often seem cheap: Now they should do this, or that. The police should launch a tougher crackdown. And UEFA, they should... You could go on all day.&nbsp;Nevertheless, one judgment should be permitted: With all respect to Mr. Watzke and the others bearing this responsibility, the decision to play football less than 24 hours later in Dortmund's stadium is problematic. More than that, it's a mistake.Three explosions occured near Borussia Dortmund's team bus on the way to their stadium for a Champions League match against AS Monaco. Police have said that the explosives were placed on the street, in a location where the bus would have been forced to slow down. Some media reports have said that the bombs were made from homemade materials.Prosecutors have said that a note was found near the bombs claiming responsibility for the attack. This led police to confirm that the incident was indeed a "premeditated attack." Later, German media reported that federal prosecutors had taken over the case. This usually indicates suspicion of terrorism or a similarly serious crime.Dortmund defender Marc Bartra was injured by flying glass and taken to the hospital. A police officer who was nearby on his motorcycle was also hurt. The bus was badly damaged.Fans were told to wait inside the stadium until the situation was cleared. The game was then postponed, and will be played Wednesday instead with heightened security. Police praised fans for their calm response.The rearranged fixture will be a "huge challenge," according to CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke, who added that the players were professional enough to do the job. "The whole team is in a state of shock, you can't get pictures like that out of your head," he said. "I hope the team will be in a position to be able to compete tomorrow on the pitch. In a crisis situation like this, Borussia pulls together."Both teams will receive extra personal security for Wednesday's game, as there is some speculation the attack was carried out to hurt Dortmund's chances. Prosecutors have said they are seeking suspects on attempted murder charges.Although police said they found a note by the explosives, they have not made public its contents, so a motive remains unclear. However, German media claimed that it said "in the name of Allah, the merciful." Authorities have said they do not yet have a suspect in the case, nor are they completely certain that the Dortmund team was the intended target. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Appealing to the team"In the dressing room I have just appealed to the team to show society that we do not cower in the face of terror," Watzke said via the club's Twitter feed on Wednesday morning.&nbsp;Just as you could observe Watzke on Tuesday night as he experienced the situation, you would have liked to know what the players might have been saying in that dressing room. "One of us is lying in hospital." "We just want to play football." "This is our job." "The fans are looking forward to the game." "The second leg is scheduled for one week's time."&nbsp;These are some of the possible reactions, and here too we do not wish to be presumptuous. And yet, it might have been wise to save Dortmund's players from their own professionalism, and to save Watzke from himself. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2b5ylAfter all, who is it really who says that when faced with terror or violence, we should simply carry on as if nothing had happened? Therapists who specialize in dealing with such traumatic events will tell you that this process can take years - and that ignoring or suppressing it is a grave mistake. Yet do we believe, in our performance-driven and resilient society, that nothing ever rattles us? Not players or their partners, not fans in the stadium or following the news on TV, some of whom can hardly bear to keep watching amid all the reports of terror, war and violence. I don't believe that.&nbsp;From Paris to DortmundMuch more, I believe that many football fans will go to the stadium tonight with mixed feelings. I also believe we sometimes demand too much of the young men on the pitch (at just 26,&nbsp;the injured Marc Bartra is already one of the older heads in a young Dortmund side), who are expected to perform at their top level.&nbsp;Back in November 2015, the night of the Paris attacks, as a Germany vs. France friendly in Paris was canceled, national team coach Joachim L w said: "For me, the sport, the match and the goals now take a back seat."DW's Marko Langer feels the game should not be replayed so soonBut now, it's more a case of the show must go on. The season's almost at its climax, the return leg in Monaco's just a week away, and Dortmund have the Bundesliga and the German Cup to worry about as well. And on and on it goes.&nbsp;But what of it? Whoever it was who laid these explosives was trying to threaten the lives of Dortmund's players. That must be all too clear to them and their loved ones. It's a welcome slice of luck that nothing worse happened.In a bid not to be misconstrued, this is not intended as an attack on the commercial model of professional sports. Everybody&nbsp;at the Signal-Iduna Park (not to mention the author of this article) loves the game - and there's nothing wrong with monetizing it at the highest level. But precisely because professional sports has become such a well-oiled machine, somebody should have thought up&nbsp;a better response to this situation. Stop, just this once - for the good of the players, and for all of us.Have something to say? Share your comments below. The thread will remain open for 24 hours after publication.