Clashes broke out between protestors and police in Argentina on Thursday as labor unions began a general strike&nbsp;to challenge the economic policies of President Mauricio Macri. Macri has been accused of being aggressively pro-business at the expense of the nation's poor.At midnight Thursday, bankers, factory employees, airport workers, teachers, truck and bus drivers, and customs agents who manage the country's incredibly lucrative grain&nbsp;exports all walked off the job for 24 hours. Many businesses in the capital Buenos Aires remained closed and usually busy streets were largely empty as protestors poured into the Pan-American highway leading north out of the capital.The strike had significant impact at Buenos Aires' Ezeiza international airport. The strike interfered with 800 flights, affecting some 60,000 passengers. The airport was effectively shut down.&nbsp;Read more: Argentina's dilapidated charm and big pies"The situation is dramatic," said Julio Piumato, who represents CGT, an umbrella group for the unions. "Wealth is being concentrated in the hands of a few at the same rate that poverty is growing," he said. "Urgent measures are needed to create employment. One out of every three Argentines is poor."As the protests gathered steam, police used water cannons and tear gas on demonstrators who refused to stop blocking the highway. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2aidEMacri fails to deliverThe strike came at the same time that President Macri was hosting hundreds of foreign dignitaries and would-be investors from abroad at the World Economic Forum. Since taking office in December 2015, Macri has significantly cut government spending including gas subsidies that helped the poor with their heating bills. He has also eliminated a number of trade regulations as part of his ardent support of free market policies. His campaign promises of major foreign investment have yet to materialize.- Former president Kirchner indicted in corruption case- Argentina bets on CEOs to revive economyProtestors were also demanding better wages as they have not been raised to keep up with Argentina's runaway inflation, a result of more than a decade of left-wing populist rule. The inflation rate was a staggering 40 percent annually in 2016 and is looking to rise another 20 percent this year.Recently, opinion polls have turned clearly against Macri for the first time since he took office. In October, his administration will face the first major test of its success when Argentina votes in congressional elections.es/rt (dpa, Reuters)