One week before the first round of voting in France, the situation is so bewildering that even the German president, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, dared to make a cautious intervention. He warned people against voting for right-wing populists whose "siren songs" promise France a great future, but who want to take the country out of Europe. Berlin is awaiting the result of the first round of voting with bated breath: After all, the future of the European Union - prosperity, peace, solidarity - and many other undervalued commodities depend on it.On April 23, eleven candidates will be on the first-round ballot in France's presidential electionRise of the extremistsIn the first round people vote with their hearts, in the second with their heads. That's the way the French electoral system is usually explained. It's intended to guard against the entry of extremists into the presidential palace.Except that the former communist Jean-Luc Melenchon's accelerated rise in the polls now makes it conceivable that the second round could see him pitted against the right-wing populist Marine Le Pen. If this happens, who would the politically-aware French choose? What seemed unthinkable just a few weeks ago is now within the realm of possibility.Melenchon has had a last minute surge in polling popularityMelenchon's success shows that many French people are now looking for a radical solution. It seems that what they're seeking is not so much practical solutions for their problems as a strong ideology that promises a glorious future. How else to explain the fact that the latest polls show Le Pen and Melenchon together accounting for more than 40 percent of the vote?Furthermore, the electorate at both ends of the political spectrum is the same. Frustrated former industrial workers who always used to vote Left, then switched to Right, and may now come back to the Left. Young voters enraged by the Paris political machine, who are simply looking for change. And the socially excluded, who approve any radical message that promises them a better life.Read more: Undecided French voter? There's an app for that!Similar picturesThe radical Left is tempting French voters with the slogan "Unsubmissive France." It promises to leave the EU and NATO, to renationalize industries, and to implement a political and economic model that it presents above all as a rejection of financial capitalism. How such a thing would work, after the end of Communism in Eastern Europe, is unclear. What differentiates Melenchon from Marine Le Pen is the concept of internationalism, yet he lacks any international partners.Read more: France's fractured Left visible in industrial LilleLe Pen comes from a far-right political familyBy contrast, National Front candidate Le Pen is completely focused on patriotism. "France first" is her motto, but her economic program is almost indistinguishable from that of the radical Left. Similar slogans and promises: get out of the EU and NATO, nationalize big industries.These platforms are attractive to many voters, who can barely tell them apart. You have to look very closely to spot Le Pen's neo-Fascist heritage, which she just revealed in a radio interview, denying that France was responsible for the deportation of Jews by the Vichy government.The center is crumblingIn this constellation, both France's European neighbors and the young French bourgeoisie are placing their hopes in Emmanuel Macron. He's the only candidate who is standing as a pro-European, with a progressive-liberal economic policy that aims finally to reform the ossified French system. Initially, Macron enjoyed enthusiastic popularity. Now, however, the polls are depicting his supporters as unreliable and not "firm."Despite scandals, Fillon's supporters have remained loyalFinally, the king of scandal, Francois Fillon, is still in the running. He has supporters, especially in rural areas, who remain loyal to him despite the investigation into his affairs, either because they're dyed-in-the-wool conservatives or because they believe in his Thatcherite reform policies. However, it scarcely seems possible that socialists could vote for the right-wing conservative in a second round. And it's not clear whether he will even be selected. For France, that alone would constitute a political earthquake.Read more: Even election augur can't predict how France will voteVoting with the headRight now, for concerned observers and neighbors, there is only one hope: that the French will suppress their penchant for grand ideologies and will vote with their heads in the first round. Until then, all we can do is observe the end of the election campaign with bated breath, and hope the French will follow the example of voters in Austria and the Netherlands by saying no to extremism.Have something to say? You can leave a comment below.Macron quit as economy minister in August and launched his independent presidential bid in November. The 39-year-old centrist formed his own political movement, En Marche (Forward), and is seen as a reformer. Despite having never held elected office, polls have predicted his win in the final round of voting in May. He's voiced admiration for German Chancellor Angela Merkel's refugee policy.The National Front leader has adopted a more moderate tone than her anti-Semitic father, party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen. But she still takes a hard line on immigration, saying children of irregular migrants should not have access to public education. She also wants France to withdraw from the eurozone and have a referendum on EU membership. It's predicted she'll advance to the second round. A surprise winner of the right-wing Republicans primaries, the socially conservative Fillon is seen to represent the interests of France's Catholic middle class. An admirer of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, he supports a liberal economic policy. Though Penelopegate and other scandals have marred Fillon's campaign, he has professed no wrongdoing and vowed to fight on. In a runoff against former French PM Manuel Valls in the Socialist primary, Hamon was the more left-wing choice of the two politicians. The 49-year-old supports a universal basic income and wants to shorten the traditional work week. He has also spoken in support of increased investment in renewable energy. He faces an uphill battle as many socialist politicians have voiced support for Macron.The Left Party's candidate landed fourth in the 2012 presidential elections. Melenchon, a current European Parliament member, believes the bloc's economic liberalism has stifled France. He hopes to profit from the center-left's disarray, but may split votes with socialist Hamon. Supported by the French Communist party, Melenchon advocates a shorter work week and climate protection. Author: Samantha Early