A meter-long (3 feet) giant rabbit named Simon has died on a United Airlines Flight from London to Chicago.Lawyers for David Dao, the passenger who sustained injuries when he was dragged off a United flight, will probably sue the airline. United has been scrambling to recover after a video of the incident went viral. (13.04.2017) Apart from the fact that they both have bobtails, long ears and big feet, the differences between the two are more numerous than the similarities. First up, although they're related, they are different species. (13.02.2015) Animal rights groups have used the Easter holiday to flag up the plight of rabbits farmed and fattened for food in Germany. The legislation is not strong enough to protect the animals from suffering, they say. (17.04.2017) CEO Oscar Munoz's employment agreement with United Airlines has been changed after his handling of the forced removal of a passenger from an aircraft. He will no longer become chairman. (22.04.2017) Annette Edwards, former Playboy model and breeder, said the 10-month-old Continental rabbit was healthy before the flight. She claims Simon died in the plane's cargo hold.&nbsp;"Simon had a vet's check-up three hours before the flight and was fit as a fiddle," Edwards told Britain's "The Sun" newspaper.&nbsp; "Something very strange has happened and I want to know what."Simon was being shipped from the UK to a celebrity buyer in Chicago, one of many sales the breeder does each year."I've sent rabbits all around the world and nothing like this has happened before," Edwards was quoted as saying. "The client who bought Simon is very famous. He's upset."Rabbit breeder and Page 3 modelEdwards, 60, holds the Guinness World Record for being the oldest Page 3 Glamour model in the "Sun." As a breeder, she also holds the record for breeding the world's largest rabbit, the 1.3 meter (4-feet) Darius.&nbsp;Simon was Darius' offspring&nbsp;and expected to challenge his father's standing once fully grown.&nbsp;United Airlines said it was "saddened" by the news and would review what happened."The safety and wellbeing of all the animals that travel with us is of the utmost importance to United Airlines and our PetSafe team," a United spokesperson said.Simon's unexpected death occurred after United Airlines came under&nbsp;heated criticism earlier this month&nbsp;when a passenger was violently pulled off one of its flights to make room for crew members.cw/jm&nbsp;(AP, Reuters)Illegal contraband is seized virtually every day at Frankfurt Airport - even if it is not always clear whether those sending or carrying it knew that it was illegal. This dagger violates Germany's weapons control laws.Forging labels of high-street brands remains one of the most common crimes uncovered by customs officers, who presented this fake Reebok sneaker at a press conference this weekSometimes customs officers have to have a sharp eyes. Last year, they noticed that these nail clippers weren't really from the town of Solingen - another example of fraud.Ivory is a much-smuggled material - and buying and selling it can be a violation of the Washington Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species.The current on this electronic pulse cigarette lighter was found to be too high - another violation of the law that officers pulled up. It was taken out of circulation.This Chinese imitation Lego was seized - an obvious and illegal copy of the original.Smuggled weapons sometimes fall into the hands of German customs officials too. Author: Ben Knight