It wasn't exactly 'Mission Impossible' - thieves simply loaded a giant coin worth millions into a wheelbarrow. Germany's federal environmental agency has called for heavier VAT on meat and milk and other animal products. But while campaigners rejoiced, the environment minister has already rejected the idea. (05.01.2017) Currywurst is one of Germany's favorite snacks, and the sauce-soaked sausage also has fans among international visitors. Berlin sees itself as the birthplace of the currywurst, but there are others vying for the title. (14.01.2017) Dutch authorities have detained seven people over one of the world's biggest ever jewelry heists. Some 67 million euros worth of diamonds and jewels were snatched during a holdup at Amsterdam's airport 12 years ago. (21.01.2017) A Berlin robber armed only with a barbeque fork attempted to hold up a supermarket on Thursday night.He was initially succesful in the robbery of a discount supermarket&nbsp;with the cashier handing over cash, police said.But he was thwarted in his getaway when a fellow employee pushed him into a supermarket trolley and he dropped his loot.Police said he fled the scene.In January a man armed with a barbeque fork stabbed his housemate at a train station in the southern German town of Amerang.Barbequeing, known as grillen, is a popular pastime in Germany. It seems&nbsp;robbing supermarkets in Berlin is too.In February two Berlin supermarkets and two Berlin convenience stores were robbed within hours of each other, though they used the time-honored method of guns and knives for intimadation.It is a favorite in Germany, and each region has its own version. There are over 50 kinds of bratwurst, and they all vary in size, texture and seasoning - so no wonder it's confusing. Although Germans now associate "Brat" with "braten," which means to fry, broil or grill, the name originally derives from Old High German: "Br t" meant finely chopped meat.Among the different varieties of Bratwurst, you can recognize the one produced in Nuremberg by its size. It's surprisingly small, not much bigger than a pinkie finger. Historical documents already mentioned this wurst back in 1313. These sausages are traditionally grilled over flames, served six at a time, and accompanied by sauerkraut and potatoes with horseradish or mustard on the side.A currywurst is simply a steamed bratwurst seasoned with ketchup and covered with curry powder. In a country specialized in high-tech cars, it sounds a bit exaggerated to call this fast-food snack an "invention," but Herta Heuwer, the Berlin cook who developed the special sauce, actually patented it in 1959. It's since become a street food classic. There's even a currywurst museum in Berlin.This veal Bavarian sausage translates as "white sausage" for its color. It has no preservatives, nor is it smoked, which is why it's meant to be eaten fresh the day it was made. A German saying recommends the Weisswurst should never get to hear the church bells ring at noon. To eat it, some suck out the meat from the skin, or, more discreetly, cut it in half and roll out the filling with a fork.The German Blutwurst (blood sausage) is usually made with pork blood and bacon. As it is already cooked, it does not need to be eaten hot - but some people do. Some regions include it in dishes with colorful names: the Rhineland's "Himmel und Erde" (Sky and Earth) combines it with mashed potatoes and apple sauce. "Tote Oma" (Dead Grandma) is Berlin's way of serving it with liverwurst and potatoes.The Landj ger is a smoked semi-dried sausage traditionally made in different German-speaking countries. It can be kept without refrigeration, which is why it became a popular snack for everyone spending time outdoors, from hikers to soldiers. "J ger" means "hunter" in German.This is another type of sausage which can be very different from region to region. Strongly flavored, its minced meat (usually pork, but sometimes beef) is preserved through a curing and smoking process. In the South of Germany, it is usually spreadable, whereas the northern varieties are harder and more like salami.There are different forms of Leberwurst, which has its anglicized form, "liverwurst." They can generally be defined as German pre-cooked sausages which are spreadable. As the name reveals, they usually contain liver - often from pigs or calves, but some varieties are made from goose, turkey or even anchovies.From breakfast to that last evening snack, Germans have traditionally found a way to eat sausage throughout the day. Teewurst means "tea sausage," a name which is believed to come from it being served in sandwiches at teatime. What makes it so easy to spread? The fat: It makes up about 30 to 40 percent of this rich wurst.Salami is typically Italian, but it is just as popular in sausage-loving Germany - and it's much more than just a pizza topping. If Italians usually stick to coffee and sweet bread rolls for breakfast, Germans will gladly serve slices of salami first thing in the morning, too. They'll enjoy it all day, as salami shows up for the simple evening meal called "Abendbrot" as well. Author: Elizabeth Grenier Barbeque forks have often been used as weapons around the world. A US police officer accidentally shot a barbeque-fork-wielding man in 2015. In Australia a man was stabbed 15 times with a barbeque fork after a drug deal gone wrong in 2013. And in 2015 a dispute over "the last rib" at a barbeque ended with&nbsp;an American woman stabbing a guest with a barbeque fork.A man armed with a kebab knife killed a man and injured five others in the southwest German town of Reutlingen in 2016.&nbsp;aw/rt (dpa)Michael Hoffmann from North Rhine-Westfalia and his grill team "Gut Glut" won this year's German grill championship in Fulda. It's Hoffmann's fourth title.Each year, some 10,000 visitors flock to the annual BBQ event. It rotates cities and was held in Fulda in central Germany this time. This year, the featured side event was a Dutch oven presentation, where the grill teams demonstrated how to use cast iron pots on the BBQ.Times are changing in the German grill scene. The ordinary bratwurst was scratched from the menu at this year's championship, since organizers considered it too commonplace. The decision was controversial, however, and earned German grill association president Volker Elm the nickname "bratwurst murderer."One of the six dishes the grill teams had to prepare was vegetarian - a requirement that's been around for a few years already. Asparagus and cheese were among the meat alternatives the participants chose in an effort to wow the 120-person jury."At the grill championships, star cuisine from the grill is presented - it's an art," said Volker Elm, president of Germany's grill association GBA ahead of the event. Both professionals and amateurs joined in the competition, vying for the 14,000 euros ($15,500) in prize money that was at stake.Whether on the balcony or in the park, grilling is a very popular summer activity in Germany. In typical German households, though, barbecuing is not so much of a progressive art, but an archaic tradition. Most Germans prefer coal over gas grills and statistics show that more men than women typically stand at the BBQ - which is also true at the grill championship.In some cases, grilling has become a high-tech undertaking. This smoker even has a miniature calculator. Not sure when your meat is done? Then your grill will tell you when it's time to take it off. This smoker, which was invented by a student from Bremen, is also remote-controlled. Author: Sabine Oelze (with dpa) / kbm