Behind closed doors and&nbsp;away from the world's media, Bob Dylan has collected his Nobel Literature diploma and medal in Sweden's capital.He was named as the winner of the prestigious accolade in October&nbsp;last year for&nbsp;creating "new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition."Klas Ostergren, a member of the Swedish Academy, said the&nbsp;75-year-old American singer-songwriter received his award on Saturday afternoon during a&nbsp;small gathering at a hotel next to the conference&nbsp;center where Dylan was performing a concert later that night.'A&nbsp;very&nbsp;nice, kind man'The intimate event was in line with the singer's wishes, with just academy members and a member of Dylan's staff in attendance,&nbsp;Ostergren said."It went very well indeed," he added, describing Dylan as "a very&nbsp;nice, kind man." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2RBWDOther members of the academy told Swedish media that Dylan seemed&nbsp;pleased by the award.Hours earlier, during his show in Stockholm, Dylan made no reference to the Nobel&nbsp;award.&nbsp;The musician&nbsp;previously declined the invitation to attend the traditional Nobel&nbsp;Prize banquet and ceremony on December 10 last year, citing other commitments.Nobel lecture still to comeAccording to Nobel Prize guidelines,&nbsp;in&nbsp;order to receive the award - worth 8 million kronor ($894,800 / 839,000 euros) winners must present a lecture within six months of the December 10 ceremony. The lecture can take various forms, including a short speech, a performance, a video broadcast or a song.Dylan said he would not give his Nobel lecture this weekend, but a&nbsp;recorded version of it will be sent later.&nbsp;Pre-recorded Nobel lectures are not without precedent.&nbsp;Canadian Nobel literature laureate Alice Munro also sent&nbsp;a taped lecture in 2013.'Are my songs literature?'After becoming the first songwriter to win the award in October, Dylan kept silent for two weeks, fueling speculation about whether he would accept the prize.In a thank you speech, which was read aloud during December's ceremony, he apologized for not being able to attend the event, adding that he was surprised to be placed in the same league of authors such as Ernest Hemingway and Albert Camus."Not once have I ever had the time to ask myself, 'Are my songs literature?'" he noted in his speech.Bob Dylan has two honorary doctorates and was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 2008 in recognition of his enormous influence on pop culture. In 2012, US President Barack Obama awarded him the country's highest civil distinction: the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Now he is also a Nobel Prize laureate.Joan Baez and Bob Dylan are connected by more than protest against the establishment. The two were once a couple. In 1963 they made a joint appearance at the civil rights march in Washington.Calling Bob Dylan a folk or rock singer would be describing only part of his personality. The man is more like a total work of art, a cultural treasure in American society. That encompasses both the iconic protest figure and the actor. In 1973 he appeared in the movie "Pat Garrett &amp; Billy the Kid."When his live touring schedule allows, Bob Dylan has always turned towards benefit performances. In this photo from 1971, he appears with ex-Beatles Ringo Starr and George Harrison, performing in Madison Square Garden for 40,000 people. The concert proceeds of $250,000 went directly to the young country of Bangladesh, torn by civil war.Bob Dylan was never a superb singer. But his voice has matured over the years, his trademark nasal sound now complemented by the requisite charismatic aura.Used to living out of a suitcase, Bob Dylan performs about 100 shows a year. His "Never Ending Tour" has been in progress since 1988. On May 24, 2016, he celebrated his 75th birthday. Author: J rgen Brendel / rf ksb/gsw (AFP, AP)