Why is the latest US military engagement in Syria so controversial? A peak into their shared history explains the complicated relationship between Washington and Damascus. Fresh airstrikes on Saturday hit the rebel-held town of Khan Sheikhoun, where a suspected chemical weapons attack earlier this week killed 87 civilians, including 31 children, independent monitoring groups reported.At least one woman was killed and another person injured in Saturday's strikes. The Local Coordination Committees, a local independent monitoring group, said the airstrikes had been conducted by Russian warplanes. However, the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights did not identify the nationality of the planes&nbsp;in their report.Other airstrikes reportedly launched by the US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" killed 15 civilians near Raqqa, the militant group's de facto capital.The airstrikes took place a day after the US launched cruise missiles against a Syrian military facility believed to be the launch pad for the chemical weapons attack.The US missile strikes raised tensions in the Syrian conflict and effectively polarized alliances for and against the regime of President Bashar al-Assad.Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.In April the US launched a missile strike against a Syrian air-base in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on civilians. The attacked marked a sharp turn-around in US Syrian policy, with President Donald Trump long advocating against direct action against the Syrian regime.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has aided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher 'Changed the situation fundamentally'Following the strikes, the UK, along with other NATO&nbsp;nations, issued statements in support of Washington's unilateral action. British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson announced on Saturday that he had cancelled his visit to Moscow scheduled for April 10."Developments in Syria have changed the situation fundamentally," Johnson said in a statement.On the other side, Russia, a key ally for Assad's regime, has suspended contact on airspace coordination in Syria in response to the US attack.Vladimir Safronkov, Russia's deputy envoy to the UN, said on Friday that the US missile strikes undermined attempts to reset US-Russia relations, an aim that&nbsp;US President Donald Trump has pursued&nbsp;since before his electoral victory."The United States attacked the territory of sovereign Syria," Safronkov said during an emergency UN Security Council meeting. "We describe that attack as a flagrant violation of international law and an act of aggression."Washington has also launched an investigation into Moscow's complicity in the suspected chemical weapons attack, allegations which the Kremlin and the Syrian government deny.ls/tj (AFP, Reuters, dpa, AP)