During a phone call on Sunday - reportedly on Iran's initiative -&nbsp;Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Iranian counterpart&nbsp;Hassan Rouhani&nbsp;called for an objective investigation into the suspected chemical weapons attack in Syria's Idlib province.In a statement on its website, the Kremlin said the two leaders&nbsp;were ready to deepen cooperation to fight terrorism.Echoing comments made by Russia's&nbsp;deputy envoy to the UN, Vladimir Safronkov, on Friday&nbsp;following US airstrikes on Syria,&nbsp;Putin and Rouhani&nbsp;said aggressive actions by the United States against Syria&nbsp;were "not permissible and violated international law." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2alfz'No solution' with Assad at the helmThe phone call between Moscow and Tehran on Sunday came as Washington's UN ambassador said that in light of Tuesday's&nbsp;suspected chemical attack, which prompted the first direct&nbsp;US military action against the Syrian government, President Bashar al-Assad cannot stay in power.In an interview with CNN, Nikki Haley said peace in Syria was impossible with Assad still at the helm.Read more: Opinion The US sends a warning to Assad and Putin"There's not any sort of option where a political solution is going to happen with Assad at the head of the regime," she said."If you look at his actions, if you look at the situation, it's going to be hard to see a government that's peaceful and stable with Assad." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2apa3"Regime change is something that we think is going to happen," she said, adding that Washington was also focused on fighting the "Islamic State" (IS) group in Syria and ending Iranian influence.Change in US approachAfter years of calling for Assad's removal during Barack Obama's presidency, Washington appeared to be stepping back from seeking regime change in Syria in recent weeks.Before the Khan Sheikhoun chemical attack, US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Assad's fate should be decided by the Syrian people, suggesting Washington would not oppose him standing for re-election.Read more: Can history tells us what might come next after the US intervention in Syria?Following Tuesday's suspected chemical attack, however, President Donald Trump ordered a barrage of Tomahawk missiles on a Syrian air base in Shayrat in the early hours of Friday morning.Both Assad's regime and its allies in Moscow have denied responsibility for Tuesday's attack, saying any nerve agents released must have belonged to the rebels and could have been hit by a conventional strike.Russia 'responsible by proxy'&nbsp;British Defense Secretary Michael Fallon accused Russia on Sunday, however, of being "responsible" by proxy for the death of 87 civilians, including many children, killed in last week's&nbsp;attack."Assad's principal backer is Russia. By proxy Russia is responsible for every civilian death last week," Fallon wrote in an opinion column published in British weekly "The Sunday Times.""If Russia wants to be absolved of responsibility for future attacks, Vladimir Putin needs to enforce commitments, to dismantle Assad's chemical weapons arsenal for good, and to get fully engaged with the UN peacekeeping progress," he added.Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.In April the US launched a missile strike against a Syrian air-base in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on civilians. The attacked marked a sharp turn-around in US Syrian policy, with President Donald Trump long advocating against direct action against the Syrian regime.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has aided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher ksb/se (Reuters, AFP)