In a spectacular opening lap, Mercedes pilot Valtteri Bottas got off to the perfect start to take an immediate lead. Ferrari had held the top two positions on the grid, but four-time champion Sebastian Vettel and his team-mate Kimi Raikkonen were surprised as third-placed Bottas overtook them straight away.Read: What you need to know about F1 in 2017Bottas held on to the lead in a dramatic end to the race. With ten laps to go, Vettel began to close the gap and with fresher tires in blistering heat, looked to set to strike.But when Bottas, lapped Felipe Massa, Vettel was slowed down trying to squeeze back past.Ferrari took second and third as Raikkonen kept Bottas' Mercedes teammate Lewis Hamilton at bay as the former champion missed out on a podium place.Four cars failed to even make it lap seven. Williams' Lance Stroll spun on the first lap, causing a crash that also took out Jolyon Palmer and Romain Grosjean, who came to blows over the incident. Red Bull's Daniel Ricciardo also had to retire with engine trouble.And former World Champion Fernando Alonso had to pull out of the race before it had even started after his McLaren broke down on the formation lap. It meant the two-time champion has yet to finish a race in four attempts this season.Read: Vettel stuns Hamilton to win season-opening Grand PrixThe three-time defending constructors' champions have their sights set on a fourth in 2017. Finnish driver Valtteri Bottas (right) will take the seat vacated by the retired Nico Rosberg alongside three-time champion Lewis Hamilton (left). They make Mercedes the favorites for both the drivers' and constructors' titles. The Scuderia Ferrari go into the season with high expectations. Neither Sebastian Vettel (right) nor Kimi R ikk nen (second from right) won a race last season. Vettel, in his 10th season, and Raikkonen, Ferrari's last champion, will hope to put Ferrari back in front.Red Bull, with drivers Max Verstappen and Daniel Ricciardo are looking to build on their upward trend from last season in the hopes of dethroning Mercedes. The 19-year-old Verstappen, who entered F1 as the circuit's youngest-ever driver, is excited about the new season: "I think Mercedes might still have an advantage on us in terms of power at the beginning of the season but we'll be catching up."Renault, the successor team to Lotus, are hoping to make an impact this Formula One seaaon. Germany's Nico H lkenberg (right) has joined British driver Jolyon Palmer (second from left) at Renault and is hoping to help his new team to a successful start. H lkenberg is still looking for his first spot on the podium after 115 Grand Prix starts.F1's most consistent over-performers of recent years will once again have their sights set on the top half of the field. They reached fourth place in the constructors' championship with 173 points last season. Mexican driver Sergio Perez und and Frenchman Esteban Ocon will be in the cockpits in 2017.Williams, which has been involved in Formula One motor racing since 1977, will have 18-year-old Canadian debutant Lance Stroll and veteran Felipe Massa driving for them this season. The 35-year-old Massa had retired at the end of the 2016 season, but agreed to take the wheel for one more year after Valtteri Bottas moved to take the vacant cockpit at Mercedes.The second-most successful team behind Ferrari will be driving in new black and orange colors this season. The British racing team will once again have Spaniard Fernando Alonso (left) in the cockpit. Stoffel Vandoorne (right), who has just one start in his career, will take part in his first full Formula One season as he has replaced the retired Jenson Button.Successful on the American stock car circuit, Haas is set to take another crack at Formula One this season. They achieved the highest position for a racing team making its debut when Romain Grosjean (left) finished sixth at the 2016 Australian Grand Prix. Danish driver Kevin Magnussen (right) has joined Grosjean at Haas for the 2017 season.The Italian racing team has gone back to Renault engines after a season using year-old Ferrari power. Red Bull's stronger 2016 season with Renault might have encouraged the switch. Russian driver Daniil Kvyat and Carlos Sainz Junior, the son of two-time rally world champion Carlos Sainz, constitute an unchanged driver line-up.The Swiss racing team is hoping to mount a credible challenge again after finishing second-last in the constructors' standings. This season, Germany's Pascal Wehrlein and Swedish driver Marcus Ericsson will seek to collect more points for their team. Due to changes in regulations, the Sauber cars will be equipped with the Ferrari motors from last season. Author: Andreas Sten-Ziemons