Gabriel (above right) said in an interview on Sunday evening that his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov (above left) had told him in a telephone conversation that Moscow would "clear the way to investigate what actually happened there."Speaking with television channel ZDF, Gabriel added he hoped it was "a serious offer."At least 80 civilians died in the air attack on the town in rebel-held Idlib province last week, prompting an international outcry.The US accuses the regime of President Bashar al-Assad of using chlorine gas mixed with a highly toxic sarin-like nerve agent in an air attack.&nbsp;Gabriel said on Saturday that information Germany has received suggested state forces were behind&nbsp;the attack.In the Sunday interview, Gabriel reiterated that "further military escalation" must be prevented."You can not pretend to just talk with Russia and the US, this is also about Iran, Saudi Arabia and neighboring countries," he said.An attempt should be made to "use this moment of fear on all sides to get the various parties to the negotiating table," Gabriel said. Above all, Russia must be dissuaded from "this unbreakable fidelity to Assad."Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.In April the US launched a missile strike against a Syrian air-base in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on civilians. The attacked marked a sharp turn-around in US Syrian policy, with President Donald Trump long advocating against direct action against the Syrian regime.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has aided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher A diplomatic solution?Gabriel went on to say that at the G7 meeting of Foreign Ministers on Monday and Tuesday in Italy&nbsp;he would seek to convince US Foreign Secretary Rex Tillerson, together with his colleagues from the UK, France and Italy, to focus on a diplomatic solution to the conflict."We must now get the Russians and many others to the negotiating table," Gabriel said. "For this the strong support of the USA is necessary," he said."It is important that the UN and experts from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) gain immediate access and can carry out their investigation without hindrance," Gabriel told the German newspaper "Bild am Sonntag."The retaliatory&nbsp;US cruise missile strikes&nbsp;on Friday on a Syrian airbase were "understandable," Gabriel said.&nbsp;The missile strikes were the first time the US has directly targeted al-Assad's forces in the six-year war. Syria agreed to remove its chemical weapons stockpile in 2013 when the US threatened military action after hundreds of people were killed in a sarin chemical attack on a Damascus suburb.&nbsp; Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2apa3jbh/kl (AFP)