The German government on Tuesday appeared to reject an EU proposal calling for stronger controls on auto emissions, according to media reports.According to Germany's "S ddeutsche Zeitung" newspaper, Berlin will reject plans laid out by the European Commission calling for stricter regulations over Europe's car industry.Among the commissions proposals were stronger controls over industry regulatory bodies, such Germany's Federal Motor Transport Authority (KBA), as well as additional&nbsp;on-the-spot emissions tests carried out by Brussels itself.Burning coal, oil, gas or other fossil fuels generates greenhouse gases, which are blamed for trapping the sun s heat and forcing up global temperatures. The world is currently emitting about 50 billion tons of greenhouse gases each year. But there are many options for reducing emissions and protecting the climate.The world's richest nations have a historic responsibility for the production of greenhouse gases over the past century. This division can still be seen today. Per capita greenhouse gas emissions are about 1.5 tons in poor nations, but that figure jumps to 13 tons in rich nations.Without decisive action, climate experts warn that global temperatures will rise between two and four degrees. That is expected to cause unprecedented sea-level rise, food and water shortages, economic devastation and the displacement of millions of people.Climate experts want increased support for scientists and engineers as they develop alternatives to coal, gas and oil. But they say individuals can make a huge difference, too, by supporting low-carbon transportation, eating less meat and being careful not to waste energy.Coal is a key part of the world s energy mix right now and is growing in many parts of the world. But coal burning is responsible for about 30 percent of greenhouse gas emitted into the atmosphere. Can we cut it out?Buildings are responsible for about 20 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions. But many new structures are able to function without relying on fossil fuels. They are also well insulated, so heat isn t wasted. Solar energy provides for most of the energy needs of these homes and offices.Engineers and scientists say it is possible to power the world without emitting CO2. Wind, hydro and solar power are considered our best bets for eco-friendly energy. In places like Germany, subsidies have helped encourage innovative thinking and pushed down prices for renewable energy like solar power.Today s politicians are making decisions which will affect the lives of future generations. Climate scientists are calling for these leaders to drop all subsidies for fossil fuel industries, work together to stabilize the global carbon price and support renewables. Author: Gero Rueter / shc The Commission said its goal was for national agencies to no longer be able to protect national car manufacturers. A further proposal would also see consumer testing and review services financed through fees and the state, rather than from the car maker directly, as a means of avoiding any conflicts of interest.However, Germany along with other European carmakers - Spain, Italy and the Czech Republic - looked ready to slam the brakes on such reforms.Germany has already been accused of impeding an EU proposal that would allow Brussels to fine car makers 30,000 euros ($32,500) for each vehicle found guilty of cheating emissions tests and have it removed from the market. Berlin's tentativeness on the issue has only delayed the decision, according to Brussels insiders. A decision, initially expected to be made by the end of next month, it unlikely to come anytime soon.German carmaker Volkswagen's manipulation of exhaust sensors for diesel cars&nbsp;had exposed the industry's failure to regulate itself, the European Federation for Transport and Environment, an umbrella for European environmental NGOs,&nbsp;is reported to have said. It warned that countries that rejected the EU's emissions controls were putting commercial interests ahead of its citizens.Elsewhere, Germany also appeared ready to dismiss another EU specification for coal-fired power stations. EU states were expected to outline the best new technology available. However, Berlin believes that the specified nitric oxide reductions go too far and would require expensive retrofitting&nbsp;in all power stations.Without German support, it remains unclear whether draft bill to get the necessary majority.dm/bw&nbsp;(Reuters, Sueddeutsche.com) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ah8e