It felt like the game that would never happen.The 24 hours between a suspected terrorist attack on the Dortmund team bus and kick off on Wednesday, felt a lot longer.There were many voices in Germany critical that the game was rescheduled too hastily. The cover of Wednesday's tabloid SportBild suggested the second attempt was too soon and a banner unfurled on the S dtrib ne before the game read: "UEFA: Greedy Old Bastards."Opinion: The folly of playing onDortmund fans clearly felt European football's governing body were putting profits before safety; and they may just have a point. While UEFA wanted to project a "show must go on message, Dortmund coach Thomas Tuchel was less than impressed in the post-match press conference with how they had dealt with the situation. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2b8HP'I wanted more time'"We were informed by text message that UEFA was making this decision," Tuchel said. "We wished we would have had more time to deal with what happened, but someone in Switzerland decided we must play. We will not forget it, it is a very bad feeling."A few minutes after this attack, the only question that was asked was, 'Are you ready to play?'. As if we'd had a beer thrown on our coach," an angered Tuchell added. "The date was imposed on us. There is a feeling of helplessness. What we think has not interested anyone. We weren't asked about playing the game."Read: Humanity preveals as football fans stand together in Dortmund"I just wanted more time, a few more days. In a few days, we will not have digested completely but time helps us to find a solution." Tuchel added: "UEFA is eager to continue playing. Of course we have to keep it going, but we still want to be competitive."Armed police at every turnDespite Tuchel's irritation, the fans took the situation in their stride. The carefree, well-natured energy around the stadium on Tuesday continued, but contrasted starkly with a tenser, edgy atmosphere on Wednesday.There was a heavy police presence with armed officers drafted in from all over the regionThe security presence was incomparable from a night before, with armed police visible at every turn, with Dortmund police suggesting the volume of officers, who had been drafted in from all over North Rhine Westphalia, was the highest number ever recorded for a match at this stadium. There was a feeling that this game was something to get through, rather than something to be enjoyed. At times, it didn't even feel like a football match.Read: The game must go on says sports psychologistFor all the upheaval and stress of the previous 24 hours, these fans deserved some entertainment. And in that respect, the game didn't disappoint. An absorbing contest that ebbed and flowed as two of Europe's finest attacking teams went toe-to-toe.Absorbing contestBilled as a showdown between Europe's two best young teams, there was one player that stole show, demonstrating a maturity well beyond his tender 18 years. It wasn't just that Kylian Mbappe scored two goals in a Champions League quarterfinal that was striking, but just how comfortable this star-in-the-making looks on the biggest stage. Mbappe scored Monaco's opener, which should have been disallowed, but it was his fearlessness and raw speed that Dortmund's wooden defence couldn't live with.Three explosions occured near Borussia Dortmund's team bus on the way to their stadium for a Champions League match against AS Monaco. Police have said that the explosives were placed on the street, in a location where the bus would have been forced to slow down. Some media reports have said that the bombs were made from homemade materials.Prosecutors have said that a note was found near the bombs claiming responsibility for the attack. This led police to confirm that the incident was indeed a "premeditated attack." Later, German media reported that federal prosecutors had taken over the case. This usually indicates suspicion of terrorism or a similarly serious crime.Dortmund defender Marc Bartra was injured by flying glass and taken to the hospital. A police officer who was nearby on his motorcycle was also hurt. The bus was badly damaged.Fans were told to wait inside the stadium until the situation was cleared. The game was then postponed, and will be played Wednesday instead with heightened security. Police praised fans for their calm response.The rearranged fixture will be a "huge challenge," according to CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke, who added that the players were professional enough to do the job. "The whole team is in a state of shock, you can't get pictures like that out of your head," he said. "I hope the team will be in a position to be able to compete tomorrow on the pitch. In a crisis situation like this, Borussia pulls together."Both teams will receive extra personal security for Wednesday's game, as there is some speculation the attack was carried out to hurt Dortmund's chances. Prosecutors have said they are seeking suspects on attempted murder charges.Although police said they found a note by the explosives, they have not made public its contents, so a motive remains unclear. However, German media claimed that it said "in the name of Allah, the merciful." Authorities have said they do not yet have a suspect in the case, nor are they completely certain that the Dortmund team was the intended target. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Dortmund went in 2-0 at half time but came out strongly in the second half and pulled a goal back to put Monaco on the back foot. But just as Dortmund looked like forcing an equalizer, Mbappe struck again - and in some style. A misplaced Dortmund pass gave the French teenager a clean run at Roman B rki, and Mbappe kept his cool unleashing an assured and precise finish into the far corner. It was ice cold finishing from a player who will surely light up big European nights for years to come, as his performance eclipsed the collection of young Dortmund talent. In fact, it was one of Dortmund's older heads, goalscorer Shinji Kagawa, whose ability to drift between the opposition's defence and midfield still makes him one of the most effective attacking midfielders in the game.Read: Arrest made of 'Islamist' suspect in Dortmund attackFor Dortmund, getting the right result in this game was never going to be an easy task given the circumstances. Kagawa's late strike could yet be the lifeline Dortmund need to come through the second leg next week in Monaco. For now the club will be relieved to have got through this unfortunate episode, despite the club's treatment by UEFA leaving a bitter taste.