A Palestinian Authority official, Issa Qaraqe, said Monday that "around 1,300 Palestinian prisoners" were participating in the hunger strike.The NGO Palestinian Prisoners' Club said 1,500 people were taking part. The Israeli prison service on Monday put that number at about 1,100.The hunger-striking prisoners were calling for better conditions including access to phones, better medical services and extended visiting rights for their families.The Palestinian observer mission to the United Nations on Monday called for Israel to release thousands of Palestinians it said were "illegally and inhumanely" imprisoned and detained.About 6,500 Palestinians are currently detained by Israel on a wide range of offenses and alleged crimes. According to Palestinian authorities and the advocacy group Addameer, some 500 of them are held under administrative detention which means they are jailed without charge or trial for a period of six months, which can be extended. The only functioning power plant in the Palestinian territory is out of action after running out of fuel. The local electricity company blamed a "dispute" between Hamas and the Palestinian Authority for the outage. (16.04.2017) Israel has closed one of its border crossings with Egypt, citing fears of an "imminent" attack in the area. It comes after twin bombings targeting Coptic Christian churches in Egypt killed over 40 people on Sunday. (10.04.2017) A British woman in her early 20s has died after being stabbed by a Palestinian man in Jerusalem. Thousands of Christians and Jews were celebrating Good Friday and Passover in the city at the time of the attack. (14.04.2017) Hamas have hanged three men it accused of collaborating with Israel. The Islamist militant group executed the men amid a campaign encouraging any Israeli-recruited agents to turn themselves in. (06.04.2017) At the height of the recent hunger strikes in Israeli jails, 16,000 Palestinians were refusing food. The protest can, however, be traced back to the individual action of one man: Khader Adnan. (28.05.2012) Israeli authorities argue administrative detention protects at-risk informants and is needed for the country's security.Prominent prisoner called for hunger strikeA prominent leader in the Fatah party of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, Marwan Barghouti, had called for the strike. Barghouti is serving multiple life sentences for murder for his role in the deadly uprising of the second Palestinian intifada in the early 2000s. Recent polls have shown the popular Fatah figure could win an election for the Palestinian presidency.In an opinion piece published in "The New York Times," to coincide with the beginning of the hunger strike, Barghouti accused Israel of breaching international law when it came to the treatment of Palestinian prisoners."The Israeli authorities and its prison service have turned basic rights that should be guaranteed under international law - including those painfully secured through previous hunger strikes - into privileges they decide to grant us or deprive us of," he wrote.Hana Herbst, a spokeswoman for the Israel Prison Service, said in a statement that striking prisoners were being transfered to separate cell blocks.To mark this year's prisoners' day, several rallies and other events were planned by Palestinian authorities in the occupied West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2YyfSse/jm (dpa, AFP, AP)