Pyongyang remained defiant on Sunday, with the ruling parties newspaper&nbsp;publishing a commentary likening the US aircraft carrier to a "gross animal" and threatening to strike it."Our revolutionary forces are combat-ready to sink a US nuclear powered aircraft carrier with a single strike," the "Rodong Sinmun" newspaper said.&nbsp;A spokesperson for the USS Carl Vinson posted on its Facebook page on Sunday that the strategic maneuvers and communication drills would last several days."We always look forward to operating with our Japanese partners," the carrier strike group's commander Rear Admiral Jim Kilby, was quoted as saying. "The relationship between the JMSDF [Japanese self defense force] and the United States is better than ever and it's in part thanks to these bilateral exercises." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2bZC7US Vice President Mike Pence said during a visit to Australia on his tour of Asia on Saturday that the Carl Vinson would be in the Sea of Japan within days. The aircraft carrier and accompanying warships are&nbsp;heading toward waters off&nbsp;the Korean Peninsula&nbsp;in a show of force amid elevated tensions. On April 8, the US Navy said it had directed the naval strike group to divert to North Korea from Singapore, but it has since emerged that the group&nbsp;sailed south first to conduct drills with the Australian navy.Threats and counter-threatsNorth Korea has pushed forward with its nuclear and missile programs under leader Kim Jong Un, despite international condemnation. China, which opposes Pyongyang's weapons build-up and belligerence, but which remains the reclusive state's&nbsp;only major ally, has called for calm. The US has urged China to do more to rein in North Korea but did not rule out acting unilaterally.Read: Guns, gold and gas. What UN sanctions target North Korea? Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2bVJBAustralian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said North Korea "should invest in the welfare of its long-suffering citizens, rather than weapons of mass destruction," after Pyongyang threatened Australia by saying Canberra's continued support for the US would be a "suicidal act."Another anniversary, another test?There are growing concerns that Pyongyang might conduct another nuclear test or fire more ballistic missiles to coincide with when North Korea marks the 85th anniversary of its army on Tuesday. Its latest ballistic missile launch attempt was on April 16, shortly after the country marked the 105th birthday of its late founding leader, Kim Il Sung. The launch failed.The US, South Korea and Japan regularly conduct military and training exercises together. The most recent of the bilateral exercises between the Carl Vinson strike group and Japanese forces took place in March.In February, China banned all coal imports from North Korea. Under tight conditions, North Korea may still export $400.87 million (374 million euros) or 7.5 million metric tons of coal per year, whichever is less. Pictured here is China's Liaoning Greenland Energy Coal Co. in Dandong, on the border with North Korea. North Korea is prohibited from opening banks abroad, and UN member states are prohibited from operating financial institutions on Pyongyang's behalf. Any dealings that might help North Korea skirt the sanctions are banned, and UN member states must expel and repatriate anyone working on the regime's financial behalf.This North Korean cargo ship found itself boarded for inspection in the Philippines in March 2016 after the United Nations ordered member nations to de-register any vessel owned, operated or crewed on orders from Pyongyang. North Korean ships also cannot fly the flags of other nations to evade sanctions. Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, remains exempt from aviation sanctions and still has scheduled flights to China and Russia, as well as several domestic routes. However, the airline cannot fly to the European Union, which has banned it on safety grounds, and the United States prevents citizens from legally conducting business with the carrier.In theory, North Koreans can still cruise the country in Pyeonghwa sedans, as UN sanctions only currently ban the sale of aviation, jet and rocket fuel to Pyongyang. Crude and similar oils remain permitted - for now. The automaker, owned in a joint venture with the deceased North Korean Reverend Sun Myung Moon's influential Unification Church, only cranks out a few hundred cars a year.UN sanctions limit North Korea's diplomats abroad - at the country's Berlin embassy, for example - to only one bank account each. North Korea is also not permitted to own real estate abroad for any purposes other than consular.It's a safe bet that North Korea's marching military did not learn its moves abroad: UN sanctions ban foreign security forces from training the country's army, police or paramilitary units. The United Nations does permit medical exchanges, but otherwise allow very little assistance of scientific or technical value.Anyone wanting to own a larger-than-life Kim will have to await the end of North Korea's nuclear program. The UN sanctions currently ban the sale of statues by the nation. Author: Milan Gagnon (Reuters, UN) se/rc (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)