In a fax to the Social Democratic Party&nbsp;(SPD) Thuringia faction late on Tuesday,&nbsp;MP Marion Rosin told her fellow&nbsp;delegates that her decision to leave the party&nbsp;had been prompted by the Red-Red-Green's (R2G) coalition's centralist tendencies characterized by "the dogmatic-ideological leaders of the left."Read more: Where will Europe's mega-election year 2017 leave the Left?Rosin's departure from the SPD is a huge blow to the Thuringia state coalition, which since 2014 has comprised the SPD, Left and Greens . The alliance, led by Thuringia Left Party faction leader Bodo Ramelow, now holds the majority in Erfurt by only one vote with 46 of the 91 seats.Anyone who goes to Thuringia should visit Erfurt. One special attraction in the Thuringian state capital is the Kr merbr cke, Europe's longest bridge completely covered with dwellings. What else is there to see in Erfurt? Loads! The medieval town center, St Mary's Cathedral and Europe's oldest preserved synagogue, to name but a few.Thanks to its ancient beech forest, Hainich National Park is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The canopy walkway allows visitors to enjoy the otherwise inaccessible parts of the park. It leads visitors through the treetops at a height of 24 meters (78 feet). Some fortunate visitors get to see bats, woodpeckers or other animal species that live in the primeval forest.In this house one of Germany's most famous poets worked on masterpieces like the novel "Elective Affinities" or the drama "Faust". In Weimar you can tour the house where Johann Wolfgang von Goethe lived for 50 years, until his death in 1832. He shared the house with his lover, who later became his wife - Christiane Vulpius - and their son August.You can also tour Friedrich Schiller's house in Weimar. The poet and his family lived here for three years. He regularly met with Goethe until he died in 1805, at the early age of just 45. Those eager to learn more about these world-famous authors can read many of their personal letters at the Goethe and Schiller archive in Weimar.1920s Weimar was the birthplace of Bauhaus - a new approach to design and architecture. Founded by Walter Gropius, the Bauhaus art school was one of the most influential in shaping the 20th century. Architecture and design was reinvented by artists from all over the world. The Bauhaus-Museum in Weimar offers in insight into their work.You can find this specialty anywhere in Thuringia: the Thuringian grilled Bratwurst. It can only be called this if it was actually was made in Thuringia. For a long time over half the ingredients - pork, salt, pepper, Marjoram, caraway seeds and garlic- had to be produced in Thuringia. The sausage is eaten with a white bread roll, usually with mustard - Thuringian mustard of course!In 1521, Martin Luther translated the New Testament from Greek into German in just eleven weeks while at Wartburg Castle, where he was in hiding. As a seminal figure of what became the Protestant Reformation, he was banished and declared an outlaw. 2017 will mark the 500th anniversary of the Protestant Reformation - a jubilee that will also be celebrated in style at Wartburg Castle.Enjoy Bach's music on your own or with others at the hourly small concert performances: at the Bach house in Eisenach both are possible. Johann Sebastian Bach was born in Eisenach in 1685, where he lived for ten years. You can also enjoy the world-famous composer's music at various locations in Thuringia during the annual Bach Weeks, Thuringia's biggest classical music festival.Hiking, rambling and walking - you can do all that in the Thuringian Forest. Germany's most popular hilltop hiking route, the Rennsteig, leads up along the mountain ridges of the Thuringian Forest to a lofty 1,000 meters (3280 ft.). And the Rennsteig path itself is long: most hikers spread the 170 kilometers (106 miles) over six stages.The Thuringians also invented a popular German card game. The card game Skat was created in Altenburg in 1813, based on both the three player card game Tarok, also known as Tarot, and the four-player card game, Sheepshead. Altenburg is also where the oldest preserved playing card was produced in 1509. Cards are still made and sold in here - the perfect souvenir to take home from Thuringia. Author: Lina Elter Education expertIn a telephone call with Thuringia's SPD parliamentary party chairman Matthias Hey on Wednesday, Roisin said she was particularly irritated by the coalition's criticism of the Christian Democratic Union&nbsp;(CDU) education policy in recent years.The former SPD MP&nbsp;had spoken out against several projects of the regional government.Among other things, according to local German paper "Th ringer Landeszeitung," Rosin found "the return of the school district from the municipal to the provincial government extremely critical" and was against the&nbsp;minimum numbers for primary and mainstream schools. The Ministry of Education in Erfurt is run by the leftist "Linke" (the Lefty Party.)Read more: Thuringia elects first ever Left Party state premierResponding to the news of Roisin's withdrawal from the SPD, Ramelow tweeted on Wednesday: "The Thuringian government is and remains with the R2G majority in the Landtag. Also in functional, administrative and territorial reform."Particular attention has been paid in local media to Roisin making her decision directly before a CDU press conference on Wednesday in which faction chief Mike Mohring planned&nbsp;to present his mid-term balance of the R2G coalition.German daily, the "Ostth ringer Zeitung" wrote that Rosin's change to the Union had "an unsavory taste," since her husband, Richard Dewes, as former president of Thuringia's SPD, "failed&nbsp;with his idea of an alliance with the Left Party" and "is now among the sharpest critics of Red-Red-Green."It was not immediately clear exactly when her membership with the conservative CDU will begin.AfD scandalsThuringia's state parliament has never been far from controversy in recent months. The CDU last year accused the SPD of no longer being legitimate after welcoming former member of the right-wing&nbsp;Alternative for Germany (AfD) Oskar Helmerich to their ranks.The AfD meanwhile is still deliberating the future of Thuringia AfD faction leader Bj rn&nbsp;H cke after he described Berlin's Holocaust memorial in January as a "monument of shame."Read more: Germany's right-wing AfD seeks to expel state leader over Holocaust remarks