OSCE deputy chief of mission Alexander Hug says the incident that killed American paramedic Joseph Stone on Sunday was an example of what the unarmed civilian monitors face constantly -&nbsp;183 serious threats in the last two years -&nbsp;only this time with the worst possible consequences."Our team faces serious threats to their lives and ability to work on a daily basis," Hug told a news conference called to reveal more details about the deadly explosion that also wounded German and Czech monitors, who&nbsp;were hospitalized and released.&nbsp; Hug added that Stone's body has been recovered from the blast site in territory controlled by the Moscow-backed separatists and returned to the government-controlled side.While both internal and external investigations are underway into the exact cause of the incident, it was "likely a mine" according to Hug, who said the OSCE personnel had taken normal precautions for unarmed mission, such as using an armored vehicle and wearing protective vests.&nbsp; "No matter how many mitigation measures we implement," he said, "those committed to continuing to perpetrate violence will always find a way to run out our mitigation measures."Michael Bociurkiw is the former spokesman for the OSCE monitoring mission, having spent two&nbsp;and a half years in the job, and now provides analysis on the&nbsp;situation in Ukraine. "It is kind of a miracle" there have been no previous fatalities, he told DW, given the fact that forces, usually from the rebel side, frequently shoot near the monitors or their vehicles in an effort to deter them from performing inspections or getting to the border. "There was an incident quite some time ago when one of the vehicles was very very badly damaged by flying missiles," he recalled, but no deaths, due in part to the heavy security measures the teams&nbsp;take.&nbsp;Bociurkiw notes that the daily reports issued by the mission have marked an&nbsp;increase in the number of anti-tank mines spotted by the monitors. "These are enormously dangerous and cause immense damage," Bociurkiw said, "and we have to remember that it's not only mission members that are in danger here, it's ordinary civilians and children playing in school yards."Coincidentally, just a day after the killing, Ukraine's Vice Prime Minister Ivanna Klympush-Tsintsadze was at NATO headquarters to open a photo exhibit called "Children in War" illustrating the toll &nbsp;the conflict&nbsp;takes &nbsp;on children whose schools have been destroyed, living in the shambles of their villages.Ukrainian Vice Premier Ivanna Klympush-Tsintsadze opens a photo exhibit at NATO headquarters showing children caught in the crossfire between Ukrainian government forces and separatist rebels backed by Russia. Klympush-Tsintsadze called for more international pressure on Russia to push the separatists to halt their side of fighting.Russia needs to stop "violations of the of the ceasefire that we're experiencing every single day from the militants backed by the Russian Federation and to also deal with these explosives and land mines" spread all over the country," she told DW.But in Moscow, following a meeting with EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov was taking no responsibility, echoing the EU leader in calling for incident to be investigated in a prompt and transparent way. "We need to bring those responsible to account," Lavrov said, extending condolences to the American people. "We need to get all the facts."&nbsp;At the same time, he inferred blame on the Ukrainian government for, he said, not being committed to implementing the Minsk ceasefire. While the Kremlin often tries to distance itself from the rebels, in this case Lavrov said Moscow would be willing to pressure them to comply with the disarmament plan if Kiev took more steps in that direction.In Brussels, Klympusch-Tsintsadze responded to those comments with disdain. "I don't think that there is any question from where this mine came from," she said. "I'm pretty sure that that would be a mine produced by the Russian Federation and put in there by the Russian Federation or separatist militants, controlled by them or the regular forces themselves."OSCE deputy mission chief Alexander Hug says, beyond explaining that the blast happened in a separatist-controlled area, he would not be pointing fingers at either side until the results of the investigation were known.&nbsp; He warned there would be repercussion, as yet unnamed."If those who continue to perpetrate this violence think this is normal,they are wrong," he said, "It is not normal and it is not acceptable. This culture of impunity cannot continue."In a trip planned before the deadly incident, OSCE Lamberto Zannier will meet Lavrov Tuesday.Every evening, the shelling begins around sunset. The front lines near Donetsk see nightly mortar and machine gun fire as the conflict between the Ukrainian military and pro-Russian separatists rages on. Caught in the crossfire are many elderly civilians who are too impoverished to go elsewhere. Ivan Polansky, above, surveys the damage on his home in Zhovanka. Residents of Zhovanka in the so-called gray zone, a thin strip of land separating warring militaries, line up to see a visiting doctor. Medics hold pop-up clinics in the town once a week. "Each day, you are waiting for the shell to land on your house and you never know when it s going to come," said local resident Ludmila Studerikove. Zhovanka was once home to 1,000 people, but the number has dwindled to about 200 since the war began in mid-2014. It has been three months since residents have had electricity and gas. "Sometimes I m so scared that I lay in bed at night and just shake, Studerikove said. My husband stays by my side and holds my hand." Olexander Voroshkov, program coordinator for the regional charity SOS Kramatorsk, said residents continue to live in half-destroyed homes with leaky roofs, even through the winters, because rent in nearby Ukrainian cities has skyrocketed since the beginning of the conflict. "Rents in Kramatorsk are now similar to those in Kiev, but the salaries are much lower than in Kiev," Voroshkov said.Women line up to receive medicine and multivitamins in Zhovanka. Food and humanitarian supplies are delivered to the town by charity organizations, as crossing checkpoints sometimes requires people to wait more than a day in line. "We had everything; we had fresh air, nature. It was very nice here. Now we just have the cold," said local resident Vera Sharovarova.Vera Anoshyna, left, speaks with neighbors in Spartak, a town in what is now the Donetsk People s Republic (DNR). Anoshyna said she has done her best to adapt to the conflict. "If you don t have water, you find it," she said. "If you don t have electricity, you find a solution. But you never know where the next bomb will land."Svetlana Zavadenko stands before her home in Spartak. She was injured when the walls collapsed after several mortars exploded in her yard. Neighbors had to dig Zavadenko out of the rubble and she was sent to the hospital with six broken ribs and a ruptured liver. She smokes Minsk brand cigarettes and laughs when asked what she thinks about the war.Zavadenko recovered from her injuries and lives alone with several pets. Spartak has not had electricity, gas, or water services since 2014, so she uses a grill to cook her food. For firewood, she goes to an abandoned furniture factory nearby and collects plywood. "Last winter we thought [the war] would finish, but now, honestly, we lost hope," she said.Damage from shelling on the outskirts of Donetsk. Despite past failures in deescalating the war, a new ceasefire may be in sight after an October peace summit in Berlin, where Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said he was ready to end hostilities in eastern Ukraine and would withdraw troops from the region. Even if both sides agree on a ceasefire, they will face opposition from their militaries, who claim their sacrifices were too heavy to simply put down their weapons. "We lost too many soldiers to stop now," said Vladimir Parkhamovich, colonel of the 81st Airmobile Brigade in the Ukrainian military. "If they give us an order [to stop] we ll consider them traitors." Author: Diego Cupolo