Free-scoring Werder BremenWhat has happened to the&nbsp;Werder Bremen we once knew as dour, perennial strugglers? The green-and-whites have all of a sudden become one of the country's in-form teams - only Bayern Munich boast a stronger record over the last six matches in the Bundesliga.&nbsp;Alexander Nouri was reportedly one game away from losing his job not long ago, now his side are level on points with Bayer Leverkusen&nbsp;and five points off Europe. Perhaps the critics were too harsh on Werder bearing in mind that Claudio Pizarro and Max Kruse have spent most of the season on the treatment table.The 37-year-old boss deserves credit for encouraging a system that uses&nbsp;fluid lines throughout, with a back-three being favored over a conventional four-man defensive chain in recent games. In attack, Kruse is opening spaces for aggressive runners from deep to join the hunt for goals. Meanwhile, Thomas Delaney, who scored a hat trick on Saturday, is being touted as the best Bremen player since Mesut zil by local media.Schalke, off the back of a derby draw, should&nbsp;be more resolute than Freiburg when they visit Bremen on Tuesday. But the Royal Blues have won only two of their last 12 games on the road in the Bundesliga. With the wind in their sails, Werder Bremen will be confident of making it three home wins in succession and boost dreams of reaching Europe.Nagelsmann's team, then unbeaten, drew 1-1 at the Aliianz ArenaHoffenheim looking to steal more points from Bayern MunichIf there's one&nbsp;team in the Bundesliga who look&nbsp;well set up for a shot at Bayern, then it's probably Hoffenheim. Julian Nagelsmann's side went&nbsp;third on the weekend after their&nbsp;win at Hertha Berlin on Friday&nbsp;was followed up by Dortmund's draw at Schalke.Carlo Ancelotti's team found it tough when they hosted Hoffenheim in&nbsp;first half of the season, relying on an own goal from Steven Zuber to gain a share of the spoils. The result shone a brighter light on&nbsp;the work of Nagelsmann&nbsp;but the south-western team could easily have come away with even more.Now the focus is Champions League qualification for the hosts, who - along with RB Leipzig - have stayed the course while other surprise packages have fallen away. Hoffenheim play with great tactical nous and flexibility, adapting to different opposition each week. Tuesday's game - which M ller, Neuer and Thiago are expected to miss - will be a stern test of Bayern's depth.The pressure cooker heating up further &nbsp;for LeverkusenDifferent manager, same team. Bayer Leverkusen's 3-3 draw with Wolfsburg followed&nbsp;a script all-too-familiar to most regular Bundesliga onlookers. Despite leading 2-0 with 10 minutes left, Tayfun Korkut's side gave up three goals in seven minutes and were eventually forced to save the day late on through teenager Kai Havertz.Kai Havertz is the youngest scorer for Bayer Leverkusen in the BundesligaThe decision to sack Roger Schmidt last month hasn't had much of an effect on Leverkusen. No other team in the Bundesliga has a record as poor as them&nbsp;over the last five games. Relegation would be an extraordinary twist in the Bundesliga story this season, but the players should be warned: there are still eight games to go and only three points seperate them from Augsburg in the relegation playoff - they are far from safe.Darmstadt, all but relegated at the bottom, won't be a pushover for Leverkusen on Wednesday night but it's a game that a team who made the last 16 of the Champions League should win. Korkut&nbsp;fielded&nbsp;Leverkusen's&nbsp;oldest starting line up for 10 years at the weekend, but they didn't make their experience count - he now badly needs&nbsp;his more senior players, like Chicharito and Omer Toprak,&nbsp;to step up to the mark.&nbsp;If they don't, the season could be memorable for all the wrong reasons.Ingolstadt's hopes very much aliveWith a 2-1 win over Mainz at the weekend, Maik Walpurgis' Ingolstadt gave themselves a lifeline in the battle for survival. But if they don't beat Augsburg, the team immediately above them, on Wednesday, it could all be&nbsp;for nothing. So often this season, the Bavarians have been on the harsh end of refereeing decisions at crucial times, but they still have hope. The way they responded to going behind to&nbsp;Levin ztunali's&nbsp;highly-questionable set piece on Sunday shows there is still spirit in this side.A primary reason for that is Walpurgis, who has turned things around enormously at the Audi Sportpark since he succeeded Markus Kauszczinski in November. However, the real challenges begin now for Ingolstadt. Wednesday's clash with&nbsp;Augsburg comes before a home game with Darmstadt, who are stranded at the foot of the table. Wolfsburg, Werder Bremen and RB Leipzig are Ingolstadt's next opponents after that, which should give them hope of cutting back at the seven-point gap at the bottom.Away blues holding Hertha backHertha Berlin have a widely-publicized case of travel sickness.&nbsp;The Berliners haven't won any of&nbsp;their last six away games in all competittons, and have won just two from 10.Fifth placed and seven points behind the top four, Hertha's slip hasn't quite been as catastrophic as the one which&nbsp;Pal Dardai oversaw last season. After racking up one of their best Hinrunde's ever, Hertha descended into chaos and qualified for Europe through the skin of their teeth.Hertha's trip to Borussia M nchengladbach won't get the juices going, if you're a Berliner. The Foals' resurgence has stalled slightly, but under Dieter Hecking, Gladbach are playing at home with a spring in their step. To get anything, Dardai's team will need to produce a display on the road worthy of the excellent support they receive week-after-week.