The northern Iraqi city of Tikrit, located about 130 kilometers (80 miles) north of Baghdad, was targeted in a series of five suicide attacks overnight into Wednesday.A Salahuddin provincial council member, Ahmed al-Karim, said the bombers targeted a police patrol on foot and broke into a police officer's house in Tikrit's al-Zihoor neighborhood. He said the self-styled "Islamic State" was behind the attacks.Security forces killed three of the bombers in the ensuing gunfight while two others detonated their explosives. Ten policemen were among the 31 dead. Dozens of others were injured.Distraction from MosulNo group immediately claimed responsibility for the bombings, but 'Islamic' State (IS) militants have carried out&nbsp;scores of similar attacks in recent months. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2aA6WThe bombings have been widely seen as an attempt by the Islamists to distract attention from the ongoing US-led international campaign to drive the Sunni extremist group&nbsp;from Mosul.While Iraqi forces drove out IS militants from Tikrit in April 2015, Mosul is regarded as&nbsp;IS'&nbsp;last key stronghold in&nbsp;Iraq.Return to insurgent rootsIS seized&nbsp;Mosul,&nbsp;Iraq's second-largest city, in mid-2014. However, the eastern part of the city, which is separated by the Tigris river from the west, was liberated from the Islamist militants in January.As the Islamist militants continue to lose more territory in both Iraq and neighboring Syria, Iraqi and US-led coalition officials have repeatedly warned that after Mosul, IS will likely return to its insurgent roots.Tikrit is a symbolically and strategically important Iraqi city. Saddam Hussein's hometown, it lies on the main road north out of Baghdad towards Mosul, roughly halfway between the two cities.&nbsp;ksb/msh (AFP, Reuters, dpa)Islamic State (IS) - also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh - is an al Qaeda splinter group with militant Sunni Islamist idealogy. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The group's goal is to create an Islamic state, or "caliphate", across Iraq, Syria and beyond.IS is believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world. It controls territory in Iraq and Syria, and its de facto capital is Raqqa, in Syria. However, the group has lost more than a quarter of its territory since January 2015. There are many groups involved in the fight against IS. The United States is leading air strikes by an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia has conducted air strikes in support of the Syrian government. Regional forces, such as the Kurdish Peshmerga (pictured above), are fighting on the ground.One of the group's main sources of income has been oil and gas - it still controls an estimated one third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led air strikes are deliberately targeting this valuable asset. Other means of income include taxes, ransoms and selling looted antiquities.IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The most deadly to date was a suicide bombing this year in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, in which more than 200 people died and many more were injured. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS can carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group.The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artefacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing", and thousands of women from religious minorites have been enslaved. The group also uses social media as a propaganda and recruitment tool.Around six million Syrians have fled abroad as a result of the ongoing conflict - many to neighboring Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, but also further afield to Europe. More than three million Iraqis have been displaced within the country. Author: Rachel Stewart