The German Chancellor on Thursday urged on all federal states to work together towards a common security and anti-terror framework."Unfortunately we still see differing kinds of laws in individual states," Merkel told the Funke media group.Merkel called out Germany's most populous state, North Rhine-Westphalia&nbsp;(NRW),&nbsp;for its supposedly lackluster security controls and reluctance to introduce stop and search laws.Read: Germany arrests 'Islamist' suspect over Dortmund bus attackMerkel also pointed out that some states, such as Berlin and NRW, don't provide a legal framework for authorities to monitor potential threats. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1IDlPThe Chancellor stressed that it was important for states to strengthen their security&nbsp;laws on the back of receiving a funding boost from central government in Berlin."We know that we are under threat, just like many other countries," Merkel said. "We have to do all we can to guarantee our citizens' protection within a free society, and ensure close coordination between the federal and state level.NRW's security apparatus has been the subject scrutiny this week after the&nbsp;Borussia Dortmund football team&nbsp;was targeted&nbsp;ahead of the Champions League quarterfinal tie against Monaco on Tuesday.Three explosions occured near Borussia Dortmund's team bus on the way to their stadium for a Champions League match against AS Monaco. Police have said that the explosives were placed on the street, in a location where the bus would have been forced to slow down. Some media reports have said that the bombs were made from homemade materials.Prosecutors have said that a note was found near the bombs claiming responsibility for the attack. This led police to confirm that the incident was indeed a "premeditated attack." Later, German media reported that federal prosecutors had taken over the case. This usually indicates suspicion of terrorism or a similarly serious crime.Dortmund defender Marc Bartra was injured by flying glass and taken to the hospital. A police officer who was nearby on his motorcycle was also hurt. The bus was badly damaged.Fans were told to wait inside the stadium until the situation was cleared. The game was then postponed, and will be played Wednesday instead with heightened security. Police praised fans for their calm response.The rearranged fixture will be a "huge challenge," according to CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke, who added that the players were professional enough to do the job. "The whole team is in a state of shock, you can't get pictures like that out of your head," he said. "I hope the team will be in a position to be able to compete tomorrow on the pitch. In a crisis situation like this, Borussia pulls together."Both teams will receive extra personal security for Wednesday's game, as there is some speculation the attack was carried out to hurt Dortmund's chances. Prosecutors have said they are seeking suspects on attempted murder charges.Although police said they found a note by the explosives, they have not made public its contents, so a motive remains unclear. However, German media claimed that it said "in the name of Allah, the merciful." Authorities have said they do not yet have a suspect in the case, nor are they completely certain that the Dortmund team was the intended target. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher The state's government has also come under fire for its failure to detain Tunisian migrant Anis Amri, who went on to perpetrate&nbsp;last December's Christmas market attack in which 12 people were killed.NRW will elect a new parliament next month&nbsp;in an election widely perceived as a trial run for the federal election later in the year.&nbsp;Merkel admits migrant policy raised threat levelThe Chancellor admitted Thursday that among the hundreds of thousands of migrants who entered Germany over the past two&nbsp;years, some had raised security concerns. "We owe it to the innocent refugees to pursue those who choose to abuse our will to help," she said.Read: Are refugees more criminal than the average German citizen?Asked whether she regretted that her "open door" refugee policy had let extremists into Germany, Merkel pointed out that the country "was already a target for Islamist terrorism before refugees arrived here."dm/rt&nbsp;(dpa, AFP)