The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) approved a resolution on Tuesday to impose a fresh monitoring procedure on Turkey.The PACE resolution cited concerns over Ankara's crackdown on dissent, as well as the state of democracy, rule of law and human rights since last year's failed coup attempt.Lawmakers also called on Turkey to lift its state of emergency "as soon as possible" and to release imprisoned journalists and members of parliament pending trial.The Council of Europe applies its human rights monitoring procedure to all countries when they join, but Tuesday marked the first time such a probe has been reopened against any member of the council.Turkey was previously under monitoring until 2004.Turkey slams voteThe assembly is comprised of over 300 members of national parliaments from the Council of Europe's 47 member states, including Turkey, Russia, Ukraine and all 28 members of the EU. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2bdC1The lawmakers voted by 113 in favor and 45 against reopening monitoring in Turkey "until these concerns are addressed in a satisfactory manner," while 12 abstained.&nbsp;The Council of Europe is separate from the European Union, but the vote is likely to be a further setback in Turkey's bid for EU membership. Among Turkish representatives, 15 vote against the resolution and only two in favor.Ankara sharply criticized the PACE vote, saying it smacked of Islamophobia and was a "disgrace to this organ, which claims to be the cradle of democracy."Following the vote, the Turkish lira weakened, dipping to 3.6001 to the dollar from 3.5862.Relations between Turkey and Europe were particularly strained during a referendum this month on granting Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan more powers.During the campaign, he accused Germany and the Netherlands of acting like Nazis by barring Turkish ministers from holding campaign rallies for the "yes" vote.rs/rc &nbsp; &nbsp;(AFP, dpa, Reuters)Following a divisive referendum that will consolidate governmental power under the presidency, currently held by Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey s opposition has been protesting the vote, which they say was rigged. While kicking off the week-long National Sovereignty and Children s Festival, Turks took their grievances to Ankara s mausoleum for Turkey s secular founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. The festival marks the 97th anniversary of the founding of Turkey s parliament. Despite unseasonably cold weather, opposition leaders and voters used the opportunity to protest the referendum results, which will largely diminish the role of parliament in government and remove the separation of powers, giving Erdogan unparalleled authority to rule the nation with few checks and balances. Inside the mausoleum, protesters paid their respects to Ataturk s tomb, where many laid flowers and prayed. "We ll continue our protest until Erdogan is gone," Duygu, an accountant (not pictured), told DW. "We will not accept his leadership. It took us 100 years to build this country through Ataturk s ideas, and in the last five years, we have watched his work be dismantled."Outside Anitkabir, crowds chanted, "We are Ataturk s soldiers." In establishing the republic, Ataturk set the building blocks for a secular, European-oriented nation, but failed to foster an inclusive state for its majority pious, conservative citizens. Since winning power in 2003, Erdogan has managed to cater to neglected voting blocks and won every election since, laying bare Turkey's divisions."We don t want to be Iran," said Mehmet, a student at Hacettepe University. "Erdogan is taking us backwards, all the way to the Ottoman Empire. But his understanding of our past is not correct. The Ottoman Empire had people with many religions and cultures. Erdogan is trying to make an empire with only one religion and one culture," he told DW.Many have credited Erdogan s success to the weak and often complacent Republican People s Party (CHP), which was originally founded by Ataturk and represents Turkey s main opposition block. "We absolutely need new leadership in CHP," Tugra, a high school student (not pictured), told DW. "We don t know where they are taking us anymore. They are no longer Ataturk s party.""Everyone here is a 'No' voter," Mulazim, (not pictured) a supporter of the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP), said of the crowd. He agreed that opposition parties need restructuring after the referendum and suggested that Meral Aksener, a former MHP member who broke ranks with her party leadership, should lead a new nationalist movement that s less submissive to President Erdogan.Cansu, a student at Hacettepe University, said she did not see the referendum as a legitimate vote because of a last-minute decision by the Electoral Board to accept ballots without validation stamps. "There are 2.5 million stolen votes," Cansu said. "They cheated. We saw the evidence in videos online, but judges won t do anything because they are afraid of Erdogan."Turkish officials visited the Anitkabir for the Sovereignty festival, a tradition that Erdogan has foregone in recent years - in sharp contrast to former presidents. "I think the EU cannot help us now," Mehmet said. "We can only help ourselves, but Europeans should know that we did not want Erdogan as a leader, he took the position without democratic support." Author: Diego Cupolo (Ankara)