Several Eastern European nations fell short on pledges to return Jewish-owned property seized before or during World War II, according to a study to be published on Thursday by the European Shoah Legacy Institute (ESLI).The study, which offers a comprehensive view of post-war restitution legislation in dozens of countries, singled out Croatia, Lithuania, Macedonia and Slovenia for limiting Jewish claimants to citizens of those countries. However, other nations have done less for the restitution of Jewish property."Among Eastern European countries, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Poland stand alone as the only countries that have failed to establish a comprehensive private property restitution regime for property taken either during the Holocaust or Communist eras, or one that addresses both types of taking," the study said.It noted that while both countries had established private property restitution legislation in the wake of World War II, the measures were "short-lived due to the nationalization principles of the Communist regime that took each country."'Rectify'In 2009, Poland and Bosnia comprised two of the 47 states that endorsed the Terezin Declaration, considered the most comprehensive restitution pact on immovable property.The Terezin Declaration urged participating member states to make every effort to "rectify the consequences of wrongful property seizes, such as confiscations, forced sales and sales under duress of property," which formed part of the wholesale persecution of Jews during World War II.Jewish assets seized during the Holocaust amounted to at least $138 billion (127 billion euros) when adjusted for 2017 prices, of which less than 20 percent has been restituted, according to academic studies.Nazi Germany, led by dictator Adolf Hitler, was responsible for&nbsp;perpetrating the Holocaust, which left up to 11 million Jews, Poles, Slavs, Romani and members of other ethnic and social groups dead.Berlin's central Mitte district is synonymous with a massive construction site. Near the TV tower and the Rotes Rathaus, or Red City Hall, one scaffold meets another. Most people don't realize that most of the property in this area was once Jewish-owned. Today, profits are being made without involving those who once owned the land. It's the topic of a provocative Berlin exhibition.Of the 1,200 buildings in Berlin's city center, at least 225 belonged to German Jews before 1933. After Hitler's appointment as chancellor, Jews were systematically excluded from the "national community." As a result, discriminatory laws were adapted that required Jews to register their property, which was later confiscated.One of the measures used to gain access to Jewish ownership was to strip Jews of their citizenship, force them to immigrate as enemies of the state, then confiscate their assets. Those who hadn't left Germany by 1938 suffered during the Kristallnacht pogrom, a night of wide-spread destruction of Jewish businesses and homes.After 1938, the "de-Jewification of Berlin land ownership" was openly discussed. Unlike many other cities across Germany, the stolen property didn't fall into private hands, rather the state made itself the direct beneficiary. The exhibition "Robbed Center" in Berlin's Ephriam Palace shows the details. Even the very location of the exhibit had once been "Aryanized."The reason behind the nationalization of the buildings? Hitler's favorite architecht, Albert Speer, was slated to built a new imperial capital - Germania. The historic city center was set to be replaced by a monumental administrative building. The center point of Germania would be the Great Hall, shown here in the picture to illustrate its massive dimensions compared to the Brandenburg Gate.For this purpose, Hitler named the architect Speer as Berlin's General Bulding Inspector. All Jewish homes in the capital were registered and reported to Speer for consideration as to whether the state wanted to exercise its right to purchase. If the homes were located on the planned East-West axis, which ran through the middle of the city center, they were to be blown up.Even private "Aryanization" occured in the city center. One prominent case included Wertheim. At the turn of the century, the famed Berlin department store had been mentioned in the same breath as London's Harrod's or Lafayette in Paris. Here, the Jewish department store appears in a sea of swastikas during the 1936 Olympic Games. On January 1, 1937, the company was declared "German."During excavations of the Red Town Hall in 2010, 11 sculptures that had been defamed by the Nazis as "degenerate art" were discovered. The sculptures had been confiscated in 1937 from German museums and private collections and had been reported missing or destroyed. A Jewish home once stood at the site of the discovery, and the family had been expatriated.Not only has its name changed, but the former K nigstrasse, or King Street, near the Red City Hall is no longer recognizable. A vacant lot now gapes from where house Nr. 50 once stood, marked red in the photo. This is where Berlin's current problem of once-Aryanized homes begins.Vacant lots have long gaped where Jewish homes once stood. Either the plans for Germania had already led to their destruction, they were bombed in the war, or the communist East German government had removed the ruins after the war.East Germany did not pay restitutions after the Holocaust. The argument? In the communist country, there should be no private property anyway. So it was even better if the state already owned it. After German reunification in 1990, when heirs of the orginal property owners once again sought compensation, they received minimal, if any payment.Those in charge based their value estimates off of 1990 appraisals, which measured the land's value in its current state. As a result, heirs of Jewish families were often only repaid 10 percent of the original value. If an empty field was all that was left of the property, the resistitution value was correspondingly low. Pictured is the once-famous Gerson furniture store, ca. 1890.By now, however, those former vacant lots are becoming home to more and more new buildings in Berlin's Mitte - a prime location. The exhibition "Robbed Centera" questions whether or not the heirs' restitution should be renegotiated, or if the sales of the land should be funneled into a foundation. Author: Sarah Judith Hofmann / lbh Poland's restitution limboOnce considered the home of Jewish life, Poland had a thriving community of 3.3 million Jews before the Nazi regime murdered 90 percent of the prewar population during the Holocaust.Despite post-war efforts to provide dispossessed Jews with their property across Europe, Poland encountered communism in the immediate aftermath of the war."The outcome was that whatever property had been restituted was subject to a second round of confiscations, this time by communist authorities," the study said.However, since democratization in 1989, Jewish rights organizations have noted that Poland failed to redress property seized during the Holocaust and later nationalized under communism."Poland is the only member of the European Union (and a former Eastern European member of the communist bloc) not to have passed comprehensive private property restitution legislation in the post-communist era," the study said.'They keep selling them'In Poland, property restitution has been a cumbersome path for Jewish claimants, partly due to the 1997 legislation that affects how property was nationalized during the communist era.For example, in order for a claimant to be successful, they must prove that the nationalized property was done so in a way that contradicted the terms of the communist-era legislation.Jehuda Evron, a Holocaust survivor who has joined more than 3,000 Jewish claimants in demanding restitution from Poland's government, said Polish authorities have done little to nothing to assist them."Instead of returning these buildings, they keep selling them to Polish and foreign investors. Most of the cases are in Polish courts for more than years and, even if you win your case in court, it takes years to get the building back," Evron told&nbsp;"The Krakow Post" in 2016.Before World War II, 3.5 million Jews lived in Poland. Today, there are fewer than 4,000. Photographer Soliman Lawrence portrays how Poles rediscover Jewish culture and their country s history. His pictures are on display as part of this year's Jewish Music and Theatre Week in Dresden. This picture shows the Jewish Cultural Festival in Krakow, which was founded by Janusz Makuch, a non-Jewish Pole.The Krakow Jewish Culture Festival is the largest and oldest event of its kind in Poland. It showcases Jewish culture from around the world and attracts visitors all over the globe. It features internationally acclaimed musicians and includes workshops on Jewish dance, Israeli food and lectures. During the final concert "Shalom on Szeroka," visitors of the festival dance together.The city of Chmielnik has a population of about 4,000 and is not home to any Jews. Nevertheless, Chmielnik has put on an annual Jewish cultural festival for the last 10 years. Before World War II, 80 percent of Chmielnik residents were Jewish. Today, remnants of the synagogue and cemetery are all that is left, though plans for restoration are in the works.Of the synagogues that survived the war, many have been repurposed and used as community centers, museums and bookstores, while a few are still used for worship. In this picture, tourists visit the partially restored Izaak Synagogue in Krakow's Jewish district, Kazimierz, which is decorated with life-sized cutouts of pre-war Jews.Not only synagogues need rejuvenating, but also Jewish cemeteries. Many of them have been neglected and become overgrown, but there has been a recent drive to restore more of the graveyards. Pictured is a worker clearing brush from the Jewish Cemetery in Warsaw. Photographer Soliman Lawrence, an American living in Berlin, is particularly interested in the relationship between past and present.Another sign that Jewish culture in Poland is enjoying a revival is that souvenirs with Jewish themes are popular throughout Poland, from paintings and menorah key chains to figures mades of glass, wood and ceramic. The picture shows molds for menorahs that are made in Nova Huta - not for religious purposes, but as souvenirs.Jews have been part of Polish folk art for hundreds of years. Today most figurines are sold to tourists at souvenir shops. Josef Regula, a Polish Catholic folk artist, carves a Jewish figure out of wood in this picture.The Jewish community in Warsaw is the largest in Poland. During the Singer Cultural Festival, members of a Jewish group mark the Sabbath in front of a crowd of at least 200 people - most of whom are non-Jewish.In memory of the 1941 pogrom in Jedwabne, in which Poles forced their Jewish neighbors into a barn and set it on fire, artist Rafal Betlejewski burned a barn in the small town of Zawada. The artistic "performance" was very controversial and stirred a heated discussion among Jews and non-Jews. Soliman Lawrence's photos are on show in Dresden through November 16.Over the last decade Poland has been debating revelations about the Poles role during the Holocaust, which have undermined the previous consensus that Poles were largely victims and not perpetrators. Now more Poles are coming to terms with the past. Pictured here, a women peeks through a fence next to the Old Cemetery and Remuh Synagogue in Krakow. Author: Soliman Lawrence / asb Europe's promiseGideon Taylor, chair of operations at the World Jewish Restitution Organization, said victims of the Holocaust needed to count on the support "of the European Parliament" and EU members to urge countries to "fulfill their responsibilities to ageing Holocaust survivors and their families.""Too many survivors are living in poverty, without adequate welfare support, while some states and individuals continue to benefit from properties wrongfully seized from Jewish people during the Holocaust," Taylor added.Despite efforts taken by European nations since the end of World War II to return property to its rightful heirs or organizations that benefit Holocaust survivors, "a substantial amount of immovable property confiscated from European Jews remains unrestituted.""While there have been significant steps forward in a number of endorsing countries, in the post-communist countries of Eastern Europe there remains much to do regarding return of private and communal property," the study said in its concluding remarks.But Gunnar H kmark, a Swedish lawmaker in the European Parliament who co-hosted Wednesday's "Unfinished Justice: Restitution and Remembrance" conference in Strasbourg, called on EU nations to do more for Jewish claimants, especially in Eastern Europe."Restitution of property is about more than the property. It is the restitution of justice, of fairness and of human decency," he said. "It is about the final restitution of the Europe that was lost because of a crime against humanity, Europe that now must be regained."The villa on Berlin's Wannsee lake was pivotal in planning the Holocaust. 15 members of the Nazi government and the SS Schutzstaffel met here on January 20, 1942 to plan what became known as the "Final Solution," the deportation and extermination of all Jews in German-occupied territory. In 1992, the villa where the Wannsee Conference was held was turned into a memorial and museum.The Nazi regime opened the first concentration camp in Dauchau not far from Munich. Just a few weeks after Adolf Hitler came to power it was used by the paramilitary SS "Schutzstaffel" to imprison, torture and kill political opponents to the regime. Dachau also served as a prototype and model for the other Nazi camps that followed.Nuremberg hosted the biggest Nazi party propaganda rallies from 1933 until the start of the Second World War. The annual Nazi party congress as well as rallies with as many as 200,000 participants took place on the 11-km (4.25 square miles) area. Today, the unfinished Congress Hall building serves as a documentation center and a museum.The Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Lower Saxony was initially established as a prisoner of war camp before becoming a concentration camp. Prisoners too sick to work were brought here from other concentration camps, so many also died of disease. One of the 50,000 killed here was Anne Frank, a Jewish girl who gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published.The Bendlerblock building in Berlin was the headquarters of a military resistance group. On July 20, 1944, a group of Wehrmacht officers around Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg carried out an assassination attempt on Adolf Hitler that failed. The leaders of the conspiracy were summarily shot the same night in the courtyard of the Bendlerblock, which is today the German Resistance Memorial Center.From 1941 people with physical and mental disabilities were killed at a psychiatric hospital in Hadamar in Hesse. Declared "undesirables" by the Nazis, some 15,000 people were murdered here by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide or by being injected with lethal drug overdoses. Across Germany some 70,000 were killed as part of the Nazi-euthanasia program. Today Hadamar is a memorial to those victims.Located next to the Brandenburg Gate, Berlin's Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe was inaugurated sixty years after the end of World War II on May 10, 2005, and opened to the public two days later. Architect Peter Eisenman created a field with 2,711 concrete slabs. An attached underground "Place of Information" holds the names of all known Jewish Holocaust victims.Not too far from the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, another concrete memorial honors the thousands of homosexuals persecuted by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945. The four-meter high monument, which has a window showing alternately a film of two men or two women kissing, was inaugurated in Berlin's Tiergarten on May 27, 2008.Opposite the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin, a park inaugurated in 2012 serves as a memorial to the 500,000 Sinti and Roma people killed by the Nazi regime. Around a memorial pool the poem "Auschwitz" by Roma poet Santino Spinelli is written in English, Germany and Romani: "gaunt face, dead eyes, cold lips, quiet, a broken heart, out of breath, without words, no tears."In the 1990s, the artist Gunther Demnig began a project to confront Germany's Nazi past. Brass-covered concrete cubes were placed in front of the former houses of Nazi victims, providing details on the person as well as the dates of deportation and death, if known. More than 45,000 "Stolpersteine" have been laid in 18 countries in Europe - it's the world's largest decentralized Holocaust memorial.Right next to the "F hrerbau" where Adolf Hitler had his office, the headquarters of the Nazi Party in Germany were based in the "Brown House" in Munich. A white cube now occupies its former location. A new "Documentation Center for the History of National Socialism" opened on April 30, 2015, 70 years after the liberation of the Nazi regime, uncovering further dark chapters of history. Author: Max Zander, Ille Simon