Pope Francis on Thursday washed the feet of a dozen inmates held at a maximum security prison dedicated&nbsp;to Mafia turncoats.The pre-Easter ritual marks the third Holy Thursday that the pontiff has spent at a detention center, which he stressed is a Christian virtue to serve marginalized communities."It is good for us to break out of our set ways, because it is proper to the heart of God to overflow with tenderness, with ever more to give," the pope said in a tweet before arriving at Paliano prison, roughly 75 kilometers (46.6 miles) southeast of Rome. The Vatican said that three of the inmates partaking in the ceremony were women and one was a Muslim due to be baptized as a Christian in June.Christians traditionally believe the ceremony recalls the gesture Jesus performed on the 12 apostles before the Last Supper, considered a most humble act for a leader.The prison hosts up to 70 inmates, 50 of which are former members of the mafia who cooperate with Italian prosecutors for reduced sentences.Christians all over the world celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ on Easter Sunday. In Germany, Easter is known as "Ostern" and the commemoration begins a week before, on Palm Sunday, marking Jesus' entry into Jerusalem. The week leading up to Easter is know as Holy Week, or "Karwoche" in German.Good Friday, "Karfreitag," the day of Jesus' crucifixion, is a public holiday in Germany, as is the Monday after Easter Sunday ("Ostermontag"). Don't think you can enjoy the long weekend by hanging out in clubs, though. In 12 of Germany's 16 states, events with loud music are prohibited all day on Good Friday. In three states, loud music is just banned during certain hours.According to the Bible, Jesus was crucified around the time of the Jewish Passover, which was observed at the first full moon following the vernal equinox. Based on the Gregorian calendar, Easter is celebrated on the first Sunday following Passover: that is, depending on lunar cycles, between March 22 and April 25. German pupils look forward to two weeks of vacation surrounding the Easter holiday.The pagan festival Ostara, named for the ancient Germanic goddess of fertility, was celebrated during the vernal equinox to mark the beginning of spring. Since the ritual roughly coincides with Easter - which also celebrates new life -, some of the symbolism was shared. That's how the egg and the hare, which both stand for fertility, made their way into our modern-day Easter celebrations.It was German scientist Georg Franck von Franckenau who in 1682 first wrote about the tradition of a mythical Easter Bunny that hid eggs in the garden for children to find. The custom was being practiced in the central and southwestern German regions, including Alsace and Palatinate. The tradition stuck - and now kids around the world try extra hard to find the eggs they missed last year.As every farm kid knows, rabbits don't lay eggs. They grow on trees - at least in Germany. Decorating both full-sized outdoor trees and smaller indoor versions with colorful eggs, similar to a Christmas tree, is a centuries-old German Easter tradition. Often, indoor trees are adorned with elaborately decorated porcelain eggs. The custom joins two symbols of life: the egg and the tree.Chocolate does not symbolize life, spring or fertility - but it's nevertheless inseparable from Easter. Over 200 million chocoloate bunnies are produced in Germany each year, with around 40 percent being exported abroad. Lindt, pictured, is actually a Swiss company, but has a factory in Aachen, in western-most Germany, and is one of the most common bunny brands.While the egg as a symbol for life dates back to ancient Rome, the symbolism of the lamb is much older. The Jews of the Old Testament sacrificed unblemished lambs in religious rituals. Christians later adopted the image of the sacrificial lamb in reference to Christ's crucifixion. In Germany, lamb isn't just a main course: Sweet Easter lambs formed from cake and powdered sugar are common.The gift of calories is still the most popular Easter present in Germany, according to a 2015 Statista survey: 62 percent give sweets on Easter, while 38 percent give eggs. However, nearly half (45 percent) said they purchase small items like games, books or stuffed animals for their loved ones, especially kids. But not everyone participates in Easter commerce: 22 percent don't give gifts.According to an early Saxon tradition, fires are lit in Germany and elsewhere in northern Europe on Easter Saturday or Sunday. In the pre-Christian spring ritual, the fire was likely meant to expel winter. In rural northern Germany, Easter bonfires are lit by official brigades or on private premises and can turn into small festivals. The fire generally burns throughout the night. Author: Kate M ser 'Violence is no cure'In an interview with Italian daily "La Repubblica" published on Thursday, the Argentine pope issued a fresh call for world peace ahead of Christianity's most important holiday."All I want is to call even more strongly for peace for this world subjugated by arms traffickers who profit from the blood of men and women," Francis told the newspaper. "Violence is no cure for our broken world."The pontiff has often remarked on international affairs, especially those affecting inter-religious dialogue, disenfranchised communities and Christians across the globe.Last week, Francis offered his condolences to the Coptic Christian community targeted by bomb attacks in Egypt. He asked God "to convert the heart of those who spread terror, violence and death, and also the hearts of those who make and traffic in weapons."The pope is expected to participate in the torch-lit procession at Rome's Colosseum re-enacting Christ's crucifixion as well ass lead a late-night Easter vigil on Saturday and Easter Sunday Mass. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ZwKZls/kms (dpa, AP)