The chairman of retail giant Lotte has been charged over the graft scandal that brought down the country's leader. Ousted President Park Geun-hye has also been formally indicted. (17.04.2017) After nine hours of questioning, a Seoul court has jailed Park Geun-hye over fears she could destroy corruption evidence. Park faces 20 days of imprisonment while police investigate corruption allegations. (30.03.2017) Lee Jae-yong stands accused of paying close to $40 million in bribes to a presidential confidante. Prosecutors also accuse the head of South Korea's largest company of hiding assets overseas and committing perjury. (28.02.2017) Less than six months ago, the name Choi Soon-sil was all but unknown in South Korea. Today, her face dominates the front pages of the papers and is on the television news everyday. But who is Choi Soon-sil? (13.01.2017) A Danish court in the city of Aalborg ruled on Wednesday that 20-year-old Chung Yoo-ra is to be extradited to South Korea, upholding a decision by the public prosecutor in Copenhagen."The district court confirms decision from the Director of Public Prosecutions. Ms. Chung is to be extradited," the prosecution authority wrote on Twitter on Wednesday.Her defense lawyer, Michael Juul Eriksen, appealed the Aalborg court ruling immediately after their decision was announced. The appeal hearing is expected to take place in "one to two months," he said.Chung is the daughter of one of the central figures in a corruption scandal that led to the impeachment of South Korea's President Park Geun-hye. Her mother, Choi Soon-sil, was a confidante to the former South Korean President. Choi is currently in jail on suspicion of bribery and receiving favors from companies in return for manipulating government affairs.Wanted for questioningChung Yoo-ra was arrested in January in Aalborg, where she had been staying with her 2-year-old child. Chung, a professional equestrian rider, is wanted for questioning and has been accused of cheating to gain admission to elite schools in South Korea, but has denied any wrongdoing.She challenged her extradition in court, saying that she signed documents for her mother without being aware of their content.Authorities in South Korea are also probing whether Samsung Electronics channeled money to a German firm controlled by Choi to sponsor her daughter's equestrian career in return for favors from former President Park and Choi.On Monday, ousted President Park was charged with bribery involving millions of dollars over the massive corruption scandal that has also implicated several top businesspeople.The former president, currently detained at a center near Seoul, faces further charges of abusing her powers and leaking state secrets.rs/msh &nbsp;(AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)