Video footage of a Kashmiri protester tied to an Indian army jeep - apparently as a human shield - has generated outrage on social media. India-administered Kashmir has been in the grip of violence for months. (16.04.2017) The Indian government was forced to postpone by-elections in Kashmir due to violent protests. Clashes between protesters and security forces have continued for months, with experts pointing to a new resistance movement. (12.04.2017) Tensions have flared in the contested region since Indian forces killed a popular separatist leader last year. Local officials have warned of more violence ahead of an upcoming election in India-held Kashmir. (10.04.2017) The clashes first broke out in Kashmir's key city of Srinagar on Monday and spread to other parts of the predominantly Muslim region later in the day. Dozens of people were reported injured as students pelted police with stones and security forces fired tear gas and shotgun pellets.Srinagar protesters chanted slogans "Go India, go back" and "We want freedom," with the rally turning violent as the police tried to stop them from marching through the city's main business area.The latest unrest was triggered by a police raid on a college in Pulwama district&nbsp;over the weekend. Indian police and paramilitaries allegedly raided the facility in search of students involved in anti-India protest. At least 50 students were injured, according to reports.The banned Kashmir University Students Union decried the police action, saying it highlighted India's policy to "rule by repression and fear."Use of human shield sparks angerKashmir has been facing a wave of violence since the local elections on April 9, when government troops killed eight people in deadly clashes. Several more people have lost their lives since. Both pro-Indian troops and separatist rebels apparently took part in the killing.An Indian policeman threw a tear-gas canister in SrinagarAnother incident that added fuel to the fire was when&nbsp;Indian army troopstied a local man to their jeep to use as a human shield. The move was documented in a viral video and caused outrage across Kashmir.Police said they had filed a case against the troops shown in the clip. The military was examining the video's authenticity, army spokesman Rajesh Kalia said, adding, "Action will be taken against those found guilty of misconduct."In yet another sign of escalation, local police chiefs recommended their officers to stay out of their own homes in South Kashmir. Previously, anti-Indian militants have stormed houses of at least four police officers in the area.dj/jm&nbsp;(AFP, Reuters, dpa)&nbsp;