US President Donald Trump seeks to build up a presence in the region and boost US&nbsp;defenses against North Korea.&nbsp;The USS Carl Vinson super carrier was ordered to sail from Singapore toward the Korean Peninsula as part of what the US Pacific Command described as a "prudent measure to maintain readiness and presence in the Western Pacific.""The number one threat in the region continues to be North Korea, due to its reckless, irresponsible and destabilizing program of missile tests and pursuit of a nuclear weapons capability," US Pacific Command spokesman Dave Benham said.&nbsp;"We feel the increased presence is necessary."Read more:&nbsp;US missile strike on Syria 'carries message for North Korea and China': analystsOn board alongside a host of fighter jets are also said to be&nbsp;two guided-missile destroyers and a guided-missile cruiser.The decision to allocate naval reserves off the Korean Peninsula comes after Trump and South Korea's acting President&nbsp;Hwang Kyo-Ahn spoke by phone on Saturday. The two leaders reportedly agreed to remain in close contact over the South's troublesome neighbor.North Korea has stirred panic across the region through its continued pursuit of a nuclear weapons program. Pyongyang has carried out five separate nuclear tests - two of them last year - while satellite imagery appears to suggest that&nbsp;it could be preparing a sixth.Just last week, the North launched several&nbsp;ballistic missiles into the East Sea near the coast of Japan.&nbsp;The US has estimated that the hermit country could be less than two years away from developing a nuclear weapon.Trump has threatened military action against North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's regime. In an interview this week with the Financial Times, he warned that the US would be prepared to act unilaterally on North Korea. That threat appeared all the more palpable later this week, after the US&nbsp;launched a barrage of Tomahawk missiles on a Syrian air base in Shayrat in the early hours of Friday morning.&nbsp;The reporters from AP covered over 2,150 kilometers (1,336 miles), in a country of barely 25,000 kilometers of roads, merely 724 of those paved. They came back with only their photos as evidence of the life in the northern part of the secluded country. In the picture: A woman walks along a road southeast of Pyongyang in North Korea's North Hwanghae province.A North Korean man sits by a cooking fire he built to roast potatoes and chicken in the town of Samjiyon, in Ryanggang province. Possibly more than any other populated place on earth, North Korea is terra incognita, but the AP team was granted access to see North Korea and travel through places that, they were told, no foreign journalist and few foreigners had been allowed to see before.A boulder lies on a path near the peak of Mount Paektu in North Korea's Ryanggang province. North Koreans venerate Mount Paektu for its natural beauty, but more importantly because it is considered the home of the North Korean revolution. They also consider the mountain sacred as the place of their ancestral origin.Farmers walk in a rainstorm with their cattle near the town of Hyesan, North Korea in Ryanggang province. "To get out of Pyongyang, we weaved our way around buses, streetcars, the black sedans of party officials and fleets of colorful new taxis that have over the past few years become commonplace," says Eric Talmadge, one of the jourmalists who participated in the journey.Young North Korean schoolchildren help to fix pot holes in a rural road in North Korea's North Hamgyong province. The country's best road is the 200-kilometer stretch of highway connecting the capital to the east coast port city of Wonsan. Beyond Wonsan, potholes, cracks or sudden patches of dirt road make travel a bumpy experience.North Korean residents walk on along a river in the town of Kimchaek, in North Korea's North Hamgyong province. The once-productive cities along its east coast, like the coal mining town of Kilju and the nearby city of Kimchaek - built around a sprawling but now eerily quiet ironworks complex - have become a rust belt, gritty and relentlessly gray.The remains of lunch left on a restaurant table in the city of Wonsan, North Korea. The government "minders" accompanied the journalists throughout the entire trip. Like foreign tourists, the AP team only saw a bare trace of the deprivation residents experience. Most of the country's citizens cannot afford proper housing, let alone a visit to a restaurant.The journalists' itineary was dictated by North Korea's terms. There would be no stopping to interview random people. "It's quite possible none of them had ever seen an American before," said AP's Eric Talmadge, "but our presence went unacknowledged. No glances were exchanged. No words were spoken." Here boys are playing soccer in the town of Hyesan, in the northern Ryanggang province.North Korean men share a picnic lunch and North Korean-brewed and bottled Taedonggang beer along the road in North Korea's North Hwanghae province. This year, according to United Nations experts, the country could come closer to feeding itself than it has in decades. But hunger remains a serious problem, with a third of North Korean children stunted in growth due to poor nutrition.A farmer carries a fully grown cabbage after harvesting it from the main crop which will be harvested early November, on the outskirts of Pyongyang. About four-fifths of North Korea's land is too rugged to farm. Providing enough food to feed the nation is a struggle for North Korea, which suffered a near cataclysmic famine in the 1990s.A man works on his car as others sit next to the Wonsan Sea in North Korea. For the most part, AP's reporters were not allowed to detour from their pre-approved route, which, to no one's surprise, did not include nuclear facilities or prison camps.A group of young North Koreans enjoys a picnic on the beach in Wonsan. "Even on the loneliest of lonely highways, we would never be without a 'minder,' whose job was to monitor and supervise our activities," Talmadge explains. "We were not to take photographs of any checkpoints or military installations."North Korean people rest next to the railroad tracks in a town in North Korea's North Hamgyong province. "Though we would not get to know the people along the way, the country itself had a great deal to say. And it was opening up before us," Talmadge said upon his return. "We had been granted unprecedented access." Author: Dana Regev North Korea denounced the US&nbsp;military intervention in Syria, calling it an act of "intolerable aggression," adding that it justified the nation's nuclear interests.Trump and his national security aides held talks with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Florida this week. The US president reportedly pushed his Chinese counterpart&nbsp;to rein in&nbsp;North Korea and do more to curb its nuclear ambitions. China is one of just very few countries that maintain&nbsp;relations with its secluded neighbor.ls,dm/kl&nbsp;(AP, AFP Reuters)