In central Ankara, it can be hard to think amidst the noise. Campaign buses are parked daily on opposite corners of Kizilay square, each one blasting propaganda as shoppers snake through crowds of flag wavers and flyer distributors.Foot traffic is heavy and campaigners from across the&nbsp;political spectrum&nbsp;work side by side to sway voters for the upcoming referendum. In less than two weeks, Turks will decide on whether to consolidate power under the presidency, currently held by Recep Tayyip Erdogan.Read:&nbsp;Voting begins in Germany on Turkey's controversial referendumCurrently, national polls show the "Yes" and "No" votes are nearly tied and as the referendum approaches, the two contrasting visions for the nation's future often play out in the streets. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2aIUS"The fact we have a close race proves there is democracy in Turkey," said Serhat Tugral, a lawyer working in a tent where legal experts explain the constitution to voters and the reasons to vote for&nbsp;"Yes" on the presidential system."We need a strong leader for the stability of the country, especially after the coup attempt," Tugral told DW. "We need to defend democracy."Read:&nbsp;Turkish diplomats, military request asylum in GermanyHe was then interrupted by an elderly "No" voter who had been listening in."Burn in hell""What democracy?" the man shouted. "I don't want listen to the same speech by the same man on five different TV channels. I want real democracy. You are all liars! You are all liars and you will burn in hell!"That outburst was a reference to national news coverage of the referendum, in which "Yes" vote supporters were getting significantly more airtime than their counterparts. A recent study of TRT Haber, the publicly-owned and financed national broadcaster, found that President Erdogan and officials from the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) had been given 4,113 minutes of coverage in the first three weeks of March.&nbsp;During the same period, opposition advocates with Republican People's Party (CHP) were on air for 216 minutes while the pro-Kurdish People's Democratic Party (HDP) had just one minute of coverage.On the surface it's about the constitution but in reality it's a vote for or against Erdogan Before ending his outburst, the elderly man also pointed out that law students with the "No" campaign had tried to set up a tent on the same street corner to share their analyses on the constitution, but were denied permission.When asked about the apparent biases, Tugral simply said, "Oppression is in the nature of campaigning."Both sides under pressureStill, it is not just "No" voters who feel mistreated in the run up to the referendum. Some students who support the presidential system have expressed fear of voicing their opinion on university campuses, where they may be subject to scorn from their peers.Turkey's pious population has long been suppressed under Turkey's secular legal system, which banned women with headscarves from attending universities or holding state jobs. Only recently, were such restrictions loosened under Erdogan's leadership and the notion of a&nbsp;Muslim populace overcoming the secular elite continues to play a significant role in the minds of many voters today.In trying to restore their place in the country's politics, street campaigners with the "Yes" vote, such as Omer Gurbuz, 38, are targeted daily with verbal insults and degrading attacks on their intelligence."Sometimes people take our brochures, tear them up in front of us and throw them in our face," Gurbuz told DW. "I just try to stay calm and respectful."The recent AKP campaigning bans in Europe have also played into the rhetoric of a victimized voting sector as anti-Erdogan, pro-Kurdish rallies have continued to take place. For Muhammet Fatih Sonmez, another lawyer with the "Yes" campaign, increased tensions with Europe can only help increase the voter turnout.Read:&nbsp;Turkey's AKP cancels campaign rallies in Germany"The crisis with Germany and Holland are good because they bring out voters on both sides," Sonmez said. "Politicians in Turkey and Europe gain from this so I don't see it as a problem."Uneven playing fieldSupporters on both sides of the referendum campaign say they feel victimizedBan or no ban, Ayhan Rustaii, a "No" campaigner for CHP, said she wished her party had the funding to campaign in Europe. Rustaii said the AKP had an unfair advantage in mobilizing state resources for the "Yes" vote."Everything about their campaign is helped with our tax money," Rustaii told DW. "They give people snacks and drinks" and hand out flags with "Yes" slogans while CHP supporters must buy their own supplies.Rustaii also said some activists&nbsp;distributing flyers for the&nbsp;"Yes" campaign&nbsp;were being paid daily wages - a claim AKP campaigners in Kizilay denied - whereas most campaigners for&nbsp;the "No" vote worked on a voluntary basis.In addition, few violent attacks on "Yes" campaigners have been reported while supporters of the "No" vote were allegedly assaulted 123 times between mid-January and March 15, according to a CHP report.Gauging her success, Rustaii said she had been able to convert some voters after explaining the constitutional amendments at stake, but she found most "are not voting for the constitution. They are voting for Erdogan."Read:&nbsp;Erdogan accuses EU of 'crusade' against IslamWhen "Yes" campaigners were asked whether they'd support the presidential system if an opposition leader took power, most gave unclear responses, usually saying the country would be better managed and experience fewer conflicts under "one brain.""You won't find any reasonable people around here. Our country is going backwards," said Mehmet, 23, a CHP Youth Branch campaigner who gave only his first name."Even in my house we are divided into three opposite poles so it's normal that people are polarized on the streets," Mehmet told DW. "We are united only when we watch football."Every night, they come out in droves to attend Ankara's "Democracy Watch" rallies. Like many here, 32-year-old Zeynip said she would continue showing her solidarity as long as Erdogan asked her to. "Soldiers follow their commander's orders," the mall employee said. "Erdogan is our commander in chief and are we are his soldiers." The photos don't show those who've been interviewed by DW."If we need to, we will take time off from work to attend these rallies," said Saadet, a 31-year-old graduate student. "[Only Erdogan] can rule a volatile country like Turkey." Saadet, as well as others, didn't give her full name because she feared another coup attempt was being plotted and she would eventually be jailed for her comments.When asked why he supported Erdogan, Cemal Kaya, a 21-year-old public management student, said Erdogan's Justice and Development Party (AKP) had improved Turkey's economic and social services. "Before [Erdogan] came, our hospitals were a mess and he worked to renovate and improve them," Kaya said, echoing sentiments widely held in the crowd. "Now our health system is much better."Kaya, who had been near Ankara's Chief of Staff building when it came under helicopter fire, said attending the rallies was a way to relieve the stress from the night of the coup. "Our people went through a trauma and coming here is a kind of therapy for us to overcome the difficult moments we experienced," he said.Ismail, a 33-year-old civil engineer, said he supports Erdogan because he is bringing Turkey's government closer to the Islamic roots of society. "We don't want a constitution against secularism, but we want one with more space to accommodate Islam," Ismail told DW. "Turkey is the regional leader and our example will help the world embrace Islam."Free food, water and transportation is provided for those who attend the rallies, a point Selahattin Demirtas, chair of the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), criticized on Saturday. "[Erdogan's] supporters are greeted with water and food when they protest the coup but when our people protest against the military occupation in the southeast, they are greeted with water cannons."An effigy of Fetullah Gulen hung from a noose, baring a sign reading: "Feto: Your crime is treason to the homeland." Gulen, a Turkish cleric living in exile in the US, has been accused of orchestrating the coup through a network of people who are believed to have infiltrated state institutions. In response, Erdogan initiated a purge to target his followers.So far, 60,000 people have been detained, arrested or sacked from their jobs. People here say they will get a fair trial. Sahin, a 34-year-old shop owner, dismissed international criticism. "Europe says Erdogan is authoritarian because they want to keep suppressing Turkey," he told DW. "Europe is afraid of our society. They know we will be a global power soon and that's why they criticize us." Author: Diego Cupolo, Ankara