Eggs sold in the European Union must bear a clear label that indicates how they were produced, among other things. Under this scheme, 0 stands for organic eggs, 1 for free range, 2 for barn or deep litter, and 3 for eggs from battery chickens.&nbsp;&nbsp;Although the EU banned battery cages in 2012, farmers are still allowed to keep hens in so-called enriched cages, where hens can stretch their wings and roost on a platform.Ever since the EU label legislation came into force in 2004, many people stopped buying eggs from group 3 - what's now eggs from "enriched" cages. Many supermarkets in Germany don't even offer them anymore.They're still offered in many other EU member states, though. In some countries, people buy mostly group 3 eggs.You're eating them, tooBut even in Germany, many people still eat those eggs, even though they didn't buy them raw."Processed eggs that are used in cakes or pasta don't have to be labeled," said Frank Waskow of the consumer protection agency for North Rhine-Westphalia.0-DE means these eggs were produced at an organic farm in Germany"Eggs of group 3 are still being used for those products - probably for the majority of these products," he added. "If it's not stated otherwise on the packaging, you can assume [battery chicken] eggs have been used."And here's the twist: Those colorful, ready-to-eat hard-boiled eggs that can be found in stores all over at Easter time are considered to be processed egg products, too. So they don't have to specify what kind of egg has been used.Indeed, it's safe to assume these&nbsp;are indeed group 3 eggs, says Waskow. "Even though they've been cooked and colored, they are still a lot cheaper than normal eggs. That's a clear indicator that these eggs can't be barn, free-range, or organic eggs," he told DW.He says if you are concerned about animal welfare, it would be best to prepare your Easter eggs at home - with eggs that you've bought yourself.Even organic is 'animal abuse'Lisa Wittmann of animal welfare group PETA disagrees. "As a consumer, don't fool yourself - all forms [of egg production] in their current state are animal abuse. Even organic."In theory, hens have more space and comfort on organic farms, and they receive higher-quality feed. But those standards often only exist on paper, says Wittmann - and there's no adequate monitoring.PETA found appalling conditions in so-called organic farmsIn past years, PETA and other organizations have secretly filmed how hens are kept on farms. Many of these recordings show apathetic animals without feathers, dying and dead hens, and stalls drowning in feces - also on organic farms.While Waskow believes this is the exception rather than the rule, Wittmann is convinced these practices happen across the board.Both agree that it's a scandal when farms where abuses have been documented lack any serious consequences - they don't even have to fear losing their business license, for instance.Off to the slaughterhouse after one yearAnd another fun fact: Don't be fooled into thinking that a hen brought up on an organic farm can look forward to a long life, says Wittmann. After one to one-and-a-half years, it's off to the slaughterhouse - because older hens don't lay that many eggs anymore.Keep in mind that a red jungle fowl - the type of chicken that was used to breed today's turbo species - can live up to 10 years.Often overlooked are the conditions under which hens are being bred. Even though their offspring might be kept in more roomy areas as part of the organic deal, this doesn't mean the mama chicken get the same treatment, according to Wittmann."Since animal protection regulations for laying hens don't apply here, they can be kept under worse conditions," she said.Male chicks are considered trash and get killedAnd male chicken are considered trash since they can't lay eggs - instead, they are killed immediately after they've hatched, a brutal practice known as chick shredding.Ending chick shreddingThe organic industry in Germany wants to do away from killing of male chicks, says Waskow, and there have been a few initiatives. However, more needs to be done to make this a broader practice.For instance, one initiative allows detecting the chick's gender before it has hatched - so the male chicks don't even have to be born. Or, to use a breed that can both lay eggs and deliver juicy meat.But it will be a long time until these solutions will actually be implemented - in the meantime, the egg industry will continue to kill off 330 million male chicks every year.Food for thought as you crack into your next egg.Even though we all know bunnies don't lay eggs, pictures like this one still turn up at this time every year. In Germany, however, it seems that eggs' special status extends well beyond the Easter holiday. From breakfast to decor, Germans have a special relationship with eggs. Here's more.Eggs are eaten all over the world for breakfast - scrambled, poached, boiled, or fried. In Germany, the soft-boiled egg is a requirement at every big Sunday breakfast. Typically, it is not considered a main dish and not eaten with an omnipresent bread roll, but stands alone in a dish of its own, like a work of art adorned only with a dash of salt. Usually the yolk - the "Eigelb" - is left runny.Since eggs are neither flat nor perfectly round, they would wobble all over a plate. For this reason, the revered breakfast staple is granted a specially designed bowl of its own. In the land of design and engineering, this is a wide-open invitation for creativity. Egg cups can be found in unlimited variety. They usually include their own specially sized spoon and personal miniature salt shaker.A throne for the breakfast egg, a perfectly sized spoon and a tiny salt shaker are not enough. In Germany, you also have a highly specialized egg opening device known as an "Eierschalensollbruchstellenverursacher" (egg shell breaking point causer). By dropping the ball attached to the post, pressure is applied evenly in a ring around the top of the egg. The crown can then be cleanly removed.Germans are consuming more and more eggs. The industry organization Marktinfo Eier &amp; Gefl gel estimated that each person in Germany ate 235 eggs in 2016, up from 233 in 2015 and 231 in 2014. While many of those eggs are laid in Germany, imports are growing, particularly from Poland and the Netherlands. Over Easter, egg consumption rises only slightly. They're a year-round passion.Considering the practically holy status of the German breakfast egg, one might think that the Germans are leagues ahead of the pack when it comes to total consumption. Each American, however, ate around 267 eggs last year, according to the American Egg Board - but there, scrambling up multiple eggs is more popular than a single pedastaled treasure. In the UK per capita consumption came in at 192.Chicken eggs generally come in two colors, depending on the species. While white eggs were most common in Germany in the 70s and 80s, more egg eaters started buying brown eggs when the organic food trend began. They are considered to be healthier and more natural. In fact there is no difference between the two kinds - except for a bit of pigment. White eggs, however, are easier to dye for Easter.Newcomers to Germany may be shocked to discover packs of dyed eggs in the supermarkets - in October. (Not refrigerated, by the way.) It's not an oversight. Last year, 475 million eggs were sold. Only a quarter of those were purchased during the first quarter, reported the "S ddeutsche Zeitung." But no matter when they're bought, does anyone anywhere in the world actually eat the dyed ones?Sometimes eggs turn up where you least expect them. If you order a sandwich in a bakery - one of those famous German bread rolls with ham or cheese, for example - a slice of egg will be thrown in for good measure. (And we truly mean one single slice.) The white and yellow add to the rainbow of condiments: You'll usually also find tomato, cucumber (one slice each) and lettuce (one leaf) inside.Bunnies don't lay eggs; they grow on trees. It's a centuries-old German Easter tradition to decorate both full-sized outdoor trees and smaller indoor versions with colorful eggs, similar to a Christmas tree. The custom joins two internationally recognized symbols of life: the egg and the tree. The biggest Easter tree was maintained by the Kraft family in Saalfeld until 2015, with over 10,000 eggs. Author: Kate M ser