Kenyan soldiers on Friday "successfully raided and destroyed an al-Shabab terrorist camp" in the Badhadhe region of lower Jubba, the Defense Ministry in Nairobi said in a statement.The ministry said 52 members of the radical Islamist group were killed and several injured in an "intelligence-led operation."It did not say whether there were any casualties among Kenyan troops, and the report has not yet been independently verified. Kenya's government has previously made claims about victories against al-Shabab that have been disputed by Somali residents, and the militant group itself often gives very different tallies of casualties incurred.Kenyan troops are taking part in a 22,000-strong African Union contingent that is helping Somalia's fragile Western-backed central government in its fight&nbsp;against the insurgency waged by the extremists.Ongoing attacksNairobi, which first sent troops to Somalia in 2011 after a series of attacks on Kenyan soil, perceives al-Shabab as a growing threat. The group has been blamed for more than 100 attacks inside Kenya since the deployment, including&nbsp;that on Garissa University in April 2015, in which 148 people died.Although al-Shabab, which is affiliated with terrorist group al Qaeda, has lost territory to the AU troops, it continues to carry out deadly attacks in the Somali capital, Mogadishu, and elsewhere. It has been fighting for years in a bid to set up an Islamic state in Somalia based on its own harsh interpretation of the religion.In the past few weeks, al-Shabab has stepped up attacks, and the government of recently elected President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed has declared a new offensive against the group in response.In January, al-Shabab said its fighters killed dozens of Kenyan troops at a remote military base in Somalia, but this count was not confirmed by the Kenyan military, which said nine of its soldiers had died and 70 militants were killed.A year previously, the group said it had killed more than 100 Kenyan soldiers in a camp near the Kenyan border, with media in Kenya suggesting that this toll could be approximately correct.Since 1999, the UN has been trying to pacify the eastern region of the DR Congo. The mission known as MONUSCO has nearly 20,000 soldiers and an annual budget of $1.4 billion (1.3 billion euros). Despite being the largest and most expensive mission of the United Nations, violence in the country continues.UNAMID is a joint mission of the African Union and the UN in Sudan's volatile Darfur region. Observers consider the mission a failure. "The UN Security Council should work harder at finding political solutions, rather than spending money for the military's long-term deployment," says security expert Thierry Vircoulon.Since the beginning of South Sudan's civil war in 2013, nearly 4 million people have been displaced according to the UN. Some of them are being sheltered in UN compounds. But when clashes between government forces and rebels broke out in the capital Juba in July 2016, the blue helmets failed to effectively intervene. Later, the Kenyan UNMISS commander was sacked by former UN chief Ban Ki-moon.UN peacekeepers in Mali are monitoring compliance with the peace agreement between the government and an alliance of Tuareg-led rebels. But Islamist terrorist groups such as AQIM continue to carry out attacks making MINUSMA one of the UN's most dangerous military intervention in the world. Germany has deployed more than 700 soldiers as well as helicopters. MINUSCA, the UN's mission in Central Africa Republic has not helped to improve the image of the United Nations in Africa. French troops have been accused of sexually abusing children by the Code Blue Campaign. Three years on, victims haven't got any help from the UN. Since 2014, 10,000 soldiers and 1,800 police officers have been deployed. Violence in the country has receded but tensions remain.The UN mission in the Westsahara known as MINURSO has been active since 1991. MINURSO is there to monitor the armistice between Morocco and the rebels of the "Frente Polisario" who are fighting for the independence of the Western Sahara. In 2016, Morocco which has occupied this territory since 1976, dismissed 84 MINURSO staff after being angered by a statement from the UN Secretary-General.The UN mission in Ivory Coast fulfilled its objectives on June 30, 2016 after 14 years. Since 2016, the troops have been gradually withdrawn. Former Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said this was a "turning point for the United Nations and the Ivory Coast." But only after the full withdrawal will it be clearly known whether or not the mission was successful on a long-term basis.The UN deployment in Liberia is - as in neighboring Ivory Coast - will soon be history. The soldiers are leaving by mid-2017. Since the end of the 14-year civil war, UNMIL has ensured stability in Liberia and helped build a functioning state. Liberia's government now wants to provide security for itself. The country is still struggling with the consequences of a devastating Ebola epidemic.The UNISFA soldiers are patrolling the disputed oil-rich region of Abyei. Sudan and South Sudan both claim to be rightful owners of this territory located between the two countries. More than 4,000 blue helmets from Ethiopia are deployed. Ethiopia is the world's second largest peace-keeping contributor. At the same time, the Ethiopian army is accused of human rights violations back home.UN peacekeepers in Somalia are fighting under the leadership of the African Union in a mission known as AMISOM. The soldiers are in the Horn of African country to battle the al-Shabaab Islamists and bring stability to the war-torn nation. Ethiopia, Burundi, Djibouti, Kenya and Uganda, Sierra Leone, Ghana and Nigeria have all contributed their troops for AMISOM. Author: Martina Schwikowski &nbsp;