It's simple knot mechanics, really - it's just not so easy to explain.Over the course of 17 pages, Christopher Daily-Diamond, Christine Gregg and Oliver O'Reilly of the University of California at Berkeley have revealed the causes for - as they put it - "shoelace knot failure." It's a&nbsp;process that occurs&nbsp;in a matter of seconds."Your laces can be fine for a really long time, and it's not until you get one little bit of motion to cause loosening that starts this avalanche effect leading to knot failure," Christine Gregg said.They solved the shoelace problem: Christopher Daily-Diamond, Oliver O'Reilly and Christine GreggThe long-sought answer to the mystery goes as follows:When running, your foot hits the ground at seven times the force of gravity. The knot stretches in response to that force and relaxes again when the step is done.With time, the knot loosens.Then a second invisible force attacks: the inertial forces on the free ends of the laces. This occurs while the leg is swinging back."To untie my knots, I pull on the free end of a bow tie and it comes undone. The shoelace knot comes untied due to the same sort of motion," said&nbsp;Gregg.Both forces together - an impulsive force right at the knot and a pulling force&nbsp;on the free ends&nbsp;(but also the loops) - finally does the trick.The three researchers used slow-motion cameras to record the untying of shoelaces while one of the researchers - Christine Gregg - ran on a treadmill.This device investigates forces applied on shoelace knotsThey also swung a shoelace knot around an impacting pendulum to investigate knot mechanics, all while adding additional weights to the free ends of the laces.As expected, the more weight on the free ends, the sooner the knot comes untied.Nor does it matter which way you tie your bow-tie knot,&nbsp;the researchers say - they will all&nbsp;open up sooner or later.There is just one thing that you can do to postpone the inevitable: Tie your shoelaces as tightly as you can."Tightly tied laces can require more cycles of impact and leg-swinging to cause knot failure than one might experience in a day's worth of walking or running," read the UC Berkeley's press release.If a 17-page study on shoelaces untying themselves seems a bit overboard, the researchers say their higher aim is to understand knots from a mechanical perspective. Knotted structures are widespread in nature."If you can start to understand the shoelace, then you can apply it to other things, like DNA or microstructures, that fail under dynamic forces," said Christopher Daily-Diamond.The&nbsp;study&nbsp;appears in the journal "Proceedings of the Royal Society A."The Ig-Nobel-Prize is a pun on the word ignoble. This year, for the 24th consecutive award, entries tackled questions such as: When bitten by insects - where on the human body are the bites most painful? Or: Is it really possible that Sultan Mulai Ismail fathered 888 children between 1697 and 1727? One Australian scientist was even awarded the prize for "unboiling" an egg.One essential question for humankind and our four-legged friends: How long does it take to urinate? A team led by U.S. researcher Patricia Yang found the answer: 21 seconds plus or minus 13 seconds. In previous years the prize was awarded to related research Dogs align themselves with the earth's magnetic field when doing number twos. Czech researchers observed 70 canines from 37 breeds. The answer: The preferred direction is along the north-south axis. That got them the Ig Nobel Prize for Biology in 2014.In 2011, the Ig Nobel Prize in Psychology went to researchers of cognitive biology from Vienna University. They wanted to find out if yawning is contagious among red-legged tortoises. While humans often find yawning to be contagious, the research group found that that's not the case among tortoises. The study was published in "Current Zoology."The winners of the Physics award in 2014 came from the Kitasato University in Japan. They looked into the friction-coefficient of banana peel on linoleum floor. The result: polysaccharide follicular gel in the banana peel does indeed perform a lubricating function. In regular English, that banana peels are really slippery - ouch!In 2014, the prize in the Public Health category went to researchers looking into the correlation between cat bites and depression. The scientists had analyzed patient data and concluded that among women who had been treated for cat bites, there was a significant increase in cases of depression. The recommendation: next time your cat bites you, better see a shrink!The 2013 prize for Security Engineering went to the inventor of a fully automated hijacker disposal device. The culprit falls into a trap, gets bundled up as a handy package by a wrapping machine and then dropped out of the plane on a parachute. This would save the police SWAT-team a lot of work in cases like the hijacking of the German plane "Landshut" in Mogadishu in 1977.People who believe they've seen Jesus on a slice of bread or on a tortilla - such news hit the media time and again. Neurologists from China and Canada found out what happens inside the brain when we are recognizing faces in places where there usually are none. What they found was a whole network of brain-sections responsible for face-recognition. This got them the 2014 prize for Neurology.In 2013 there was a joint prize for biology and astronomy: An international team found out that dung beetles looked to the shining light of the Milky Way for orientation when the moon was absent. When the sky was clear, the beetles were able to walk a straight line. As soon as the sky was overcast they lost all sense of direction.The 2010 Engineering award went to the American inventors of a special drone for whale-watching. But the drone that was used to fly closely over the whales' heads also had another task: whale smelling. The breath coming out of the animals' nostrils includes bacteria, the amount of which marine biologists are measuring. Beautiful pictures like this one were a by-product of the research. Author: Fabian Schmidt/ cb &nbsp;