Switzerland's highest court on Thursday ruled that the Alpine nation's largest political party violated anti-racism laws in a controversial campaign advertisement.The poster sought to bolster support for limiting immigration with the headline "Kosovars cut up the Swiss" in the wake of a violent attack perpetrated by a suspect with Kosovar heritage in 2011.The Federal Supreme Court upheld charges of racial discrimination against two former officials of the far-right Swiss People's Party (SVP).The SVP's former Secretary General Martin Baltisser and his deputy Silvia Baer had earlier been fined more than 23,000 Swiss francs (21,500 euros;&nbsp;$22,900) by a Bern cantonal&nbsp;court."Those of Kosovaran heritage are represented as inferior and a hostile climate against them is created as well as the idea that people from Kosovar are not welcome," the court said in in a statement on the ruling."As the lower court rightly concluded, this fulfills fundamental conditions of discrimination and disparagement and the call to hate or discrimination," the court added.'Cause for concern'The far-right party issued a statement criticizing the ruling, saying it undermined fundamental Swiss values of freedom of expression."The law is being abused to silence unwelcome political opponents," the SVP said. "Such developments in a court that places high value in freedom of expression are a cause for concern."Despite including details of the 2011 attack in small print on the poster, the court said the majority of readers would likely interpret the message as a broad statement against Kosovars, and not a reference to the incident.The SVP has courted controversy in the past with a slew of campaign posters often accompanied by anti-immigration&nbsp;slogans.The leader of the Alternative for Germany, Frauke Petry, said police could use guns as a last resort to prevent illegal border crossings, pointing out "that's the law." What began as a euroskeptic party has turned into an anti-establishment and anti-EU force, claiming up to 25 percent of votes in German state elections in March 2016 and taking second place in Chancellor Angela Merkel's home state.Many believe Brexit and Donald Trump's victory in the US presidential elections could give new impetus to France's National Front. Established in 1972 and now led by Marine Le Pen, who took over from her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, in 2011, the National Front is a nationalist party that uses populist rhetoric to promote its anti-immigration and anti-EU positions.The leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom, Geert Wilders, is one of Europe's most prominent right-wing politicians. He was convicted in December for asking a crowd in 2014 if they wanted more or fewer Moroccans in the country, but no penalty was imposed. His party is considered anti-EU and anti-Islam. It is leading polls ahead of next year's parliamentary elections and currently holds 15 seats.Nikos Michaloliakos is the head of Greece's neo-fascist party Golden Dawn. He was arrested in September 2013 along with dozens of other party members and charged with forming a criminal organization. Michaloliakos was released in July 2015. Golden Dawn won 18 seats in parliamentary elections in September 2016. The party holds anti-immigrant views and favors a defense agreement with Russia.Hungary's anti-immigration, populist and economic protectionist party Jobbik aspires to be in the government by 2018. Now Hungary's third-largest party, it won 20 percent of votes in the last elections held in 2014. It wants a referendum on EU membership. Jobbik also advocates criminalizing "sexual deviancy," submitting a bill targeting homosexuals in 2012. Jobbik is headed by Gabor Vona.After Trump's election, Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Akesson said in an interview with Swedish TV: "There is a movement in both Europe and the United States where the establishment is being challenged. It is clearly happening here as well." The Sweden Democrats call for restricting immigration, are against allowing Turkey to join the EU and want a referendum on EU membership. Norbert Hofer of Austria's nationalist Freedom Party lost the recent presidential runoff by a mere 30,000 votes, after being front-runner in the first round. Former Green party leader Alexander Van der Bellen won 50.3 percent of the vote, with Hofer gaining 49.7 percent. The Freedom Party's leader campaigns for the strengthening of the country's borders and limiting benefits for immigrants.The leader of the hard-right People's Party - Our Slovakia, Marian Kotleba, has said, "Even one immigrant is one too many." On another occasion, he called NATO a "criminal organization." This Slovak party favors leaving the EU as well as the eurozone. It won 8 percent of the vote in March 2016 elections, securing 14 seats in the country's 150-member parliament.ls/kms (Reuters, AP)