The Spanish militant group ETA handed over its remaining declared arms and explosives to members of "civil society," effectively meeting a Saturday deadline.Known for its targeted assassinations and demands for an independent state in northern Spain and southwest France, ETA gave French authorities the locations of arms caches on Saturday as part of its&nbsp;final weapons transfer in the French city of Bayonne. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2auACEight caches of weapons containing 120 firearms and three tonnes of explosives were on the list of sites in the Pyrenees-Atlantiques department handed to the French authorities, according to Michel Tubiana, a human-rights lawyer who is a member of a group acting as intermediary in the handover.French Interior Minister Matthias Fekl described the disarmament process as a "great step" towards peace and security in Europe.ETA&nbsp;formed in 1959 in response to&nbsp;late Spanish dictator Francisco Franco's&nbsp;repression of Basques, but its violent campaign&nbsp;emerged in 1968 with the killing of a policeman.Click here to read: 'ETA prisoners acknowledge pain caused by deadly campaign of violence'Since then, the separatist group killed more than 850 people, including the assassination of Franco's heir apparent Luis Carrero Blanco in 1973 by digging a tunnel under the road he drove down for daily Mass and filling it with explosives.ETA formally announced an indefinite ceasefire in 2011. However, the disarmament process marks the end of the group's bloody campaign to establish an independent state.'Gone forever'Although the group has decided to disarm, it has yet to announce that it would dissolve, prompting suspicions from the Spanish government, which has rejected ETA's demands for amnesty&nbsp;or improved prison conditions for jailed members."It will not reap any political advantage or profit," said Spain's Culture Minister Inigo Mendez de Vigo, who also serves as a government spokesman."May it disarm, may it dissolve, may it ask forgiveness and help to clear up the crimes which have not been resolved," he added. Bayonne city hall in south west France is the setting for the orchestrated handover on Saturday&nbsp;of ETA's information on its arms cashes.Despite the disarmament, ETA's actions have left a bitter rift across Spain, in part due to its bomb attacks which left hundreds of civilians dead.A petition "against impunity" for the group's members gathered more than 15,000 signatures within 24 hours after European Parliament member Maite Pagazaurtundua, whose brother was killed in an ETA attack, backed it.Borja Semper, who serves as the Basque parliamentary spokesman for Spain's ruling People's Party, said the disarmament process marked the group's final surrender."The ETA we've known up to now has gone forever," Semper said. "What remains to be done it to wipe out the hatred that ETA embedded in a large of Basque society."An old man walks past graffiti depicting the logo of Basque separatist group ETA in Goizueta, Spain. ETA (an acronym for Euskadi Ta Askatasuna, which roughly translates to Basque Country and Freedom) is a formerly-armed nationalist and separatist organization in the Basque Country in northern Spain and southwestern France.A worker removes graffiti reading 'Gora ETA' (Long live ETA) in support of the group in downtown Pamplona, in northern Spain. ETA, considered a terrorist organization by the EU, was founded in 1959. Initially, it concentrated on promoting traditional Basque culture but later it evolved into a paramilitary group, engaging in a violent campaign of bombing, assassinations and kidnappings.Part of a 14-story building seen after a car bomb explosion in July 2009, in the Spanish city of Burgos. The bombing was blamed on ETA. The group engaged in a bloody campaign to carve out an independent Basque state from parts of northern Spain and southern France between 1968 and 2010. During that time, the group carried out roughly 4,000 terrorist attacks that left 829 people dead.ETA's first revolutionary gesture was to fly the banned "ikurrina," the red and green Basque flag. In 1973, the group targeted Luis Carrero Blanco, long-time confidant of the Spanish dictator Francisco Franco. The assassination changed the course of Spanish history as it led to the exiled king reclaiming the throne and a shift to a constitutional monarchy.ETA s first known victim was a secret police chief in San Sebastian in 1968 and its last a French policemen shot in 2010. The group announced ceasefires earlier in 1989, 1996, 1998, 2006 and 2010. In 2011, ETA announced a "definitive cessation of its armed activity." The group announced on April 7, 2017 that it had given up all its weapons and explosives and would be officially disarming.In January 2017, thousands of Spanish people protested for ETA prisoners to be relocated to jails close to their places of origin. ETA sought to negotiate its dissolution in exchange for amnesty or improved prison conditions for roughly 350 of its members held in Spain and France.Arnaldo Otegi, leader of the former Basque independence Batasuna party, as he left the Spain's Logrono prison in March 2016. In an interview this week in the Basque seaside city of San Sebastian, Otegi welcomed the disarmament move. The 58-year-old also insisted that independence for his Basque homeland remains very much in the cards - but via peaceful means this time.French Interior Minister Matthias Fekl said, "this stage of neutralizing an arsenal of arms and explosives is a major step." Meanwhile, Spain demanded that ETA apologize for decades of violence and then disband definitively. In a statement, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said the arms cache move signaled the "definitive defeat" of ETA. Author: Aasim Saleem ls/jm (AFP, Reuters)