Special police forces arrested a man they suspect was responsible for the attack on Borussia Dortmund's team bus last week, according to reports on Friday in Germany's "Bild" and "S ddeutsche Zeitung" newspapers, Spiegel Online as well as NDR and WDR public broadcasters.A German newspaper has said explosives used to attack the Borussia Dortmund team bus may have come from the armed forces. The players were on their way to a Champions League match on Tuesday when three blasts went off. (15.04.2017) A Berlin newspaper has received an anonymous note claiming responsibility for the recent bombing in Dortmund. The email indicates right-wing motives, as German authorities question previously reported Islamist links. (15.04.2017) Borussia Dortmund defender Marc Bartra has been injured after three 'serious explosive devices' detonated near his team's bus. Dortmund were due to play Monaco in the Champions League but the game has been postponed. (11.04.2017) Germany's Federal Criminal Police and the Federal Prosecutors Office confirmed the arrest on Friday.The suspect, identified by the media as Sergej W., was reportedly staying the team's hotel on the day of the attack in a room that provided a view of the street where the explosion that injured one player.&nbsp;Arrested near the southwestern German city of T bingen, authorities began investigating the man late last week for 20 counts of attempted murder.Rather than ties international terrorism, greed is thought to have played a role in the attack. The suspect allegedly bought options to short sell 15,000 shares of Borussia Dortmund stock for 78,000 euros ($83,600), according to "Bild." He would have profited from the transaction if the price for shares of the team fell. The team's stock did fall from 5.738 euros to a low of 5.421 euros after the attack.On April 11, there were three explosions in the attack that took place near the Dortmund team bus as the squad traveled to a Champions League match against AS Monaco. The blasts injured Dortmund player Marc Bartra and a police officer.