Philippine forces killed a suspected Islamist&nbsp;militant on Saturday during clashes with an "Islamic State"-linked group.Joselito Melloria was shot dead in a gun battle with government forces made up of army troops and police in Bohol province. The troops were hunting Melloria and his band of fighters after a clash earlier this month.The Philippines military spokesman Brigadier General Restituto Padilla said "one lawless element" was killed in the firefight but he could not give the man's identity.However, Bohol Governor Edgar Chatto identified the man as Abu Sayyaf leader Joselito Melloria, who was among&nbsp;militants involved in a kidnapping plot on the province's main island.The troops are hunting Abu Sayyaf militants directly involved in the kidnapping and killing of Canadian and German hostages earlier this year.From convert to jihadist leaderMelloria, a convert to Islam and a Bohol resident, led Abu Sayyaf militants from their jungle encampments in the south to his Bohol village in Inabanga. Officials believe the militants were planning bombing attacks and kidnappings for ransom.Philippine forces clashed with the militants on April 11 in a fight that left four militants, three soldiers, a policeman and two villagers dead.Melloria, who converted to Islam in 2005 when he married a Muslim woman, escaped that battle, fleeing with at least seven other militants. In response, authorities launched a massive manhunt, with President Rodrigo Duterte offering a 1 million peso ($20,000) reward for information leading to the capture of the fleeing militants. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2YLu9Terrorist organizationGovernment forces encountered Melloria -&nbsp;whose nom de guerre is Abu Alih -&nbsp;Saturday with six fellow militants. It was not immediately clear how many, if any, of the militants traveling with Melloria were killed or injured during Saturday's clash.Melloria took a yearlong trip to Saudi Arabia, returning to the Philippines in 2015 and joining Maute, a small band of militants based in the south who declared allegiance to the "Islamic State" (IS) militant group. Subsequently, he assimilated with another IS-linked group, Ansar Khilafa Philippines, and Abu Sayyaf, according to the military.Philippine security officials said that had the Bohol plots been successful, Melloria would have become the leader of Ansar Khilafa Philippines, whose leader was killed in January during a clash with police.The fighting and foiled terror plots in Bohol have unnerved local residents and prompted Western countries to warn their citizens about traveling to the Philippines' central region, a popular tourist destination.The United States and the Philippines have labeled the Abu Sayyaf as a terrorist organization because of bombings, kidnappings for ransom and beheadings.Islamic State (IS) - also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh - is an al Qaeda splinter group with militant Sunni Islamist idealogy. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The group's goal is to create an Islamic state, or "caliphate", across Iraq, Syria and beyond.IS is believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world. It controls territory in Iraq and Syria, and its de facto capital is Raqqa, in Syria. However, the group has lost more than a quarter of its territory since January 2015. There are many groups involved in the fight against IS. The United States is leading air strikes by an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia has conducted air strikes in support of the Syrian government. Regional forces, such as the Kurdish Peshmerga (pictured above), are fighting on the ground.One of the group's main sources of income has been oil and gas - it still controls an estimated one third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led air strikes are deliberately targeting this valuable asset. Other means of income include taxes, ransoms and selling looted antiquities.IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The most deadly to date was a suicide bombing this year in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, in which more than 200 people died and many more were injured. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS can carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group.The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artefacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing", and thousands of women from religious minorites have been enslaved. The group also uses social media as a propaganda and recruitment tool.Around six million Syrians have fled abroad as a result of the ongoing conflict - many to neighboring Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, but also further afield to Europe. More than three million Iraqis have been displaced within the country. Author: Rachel Stewart bik/ls&nbsp;(AP, Reuters)