Al Shabaab militants have attacked a hotel in the capital of the semi-autonomous Puntland region of Somalia killing six. It's the latest in a series of attacks against state officials, security forces and civilians. (08.02.2017) Over 20 million are facing famine and starvation in four countries, the UN humanitarian chief has warned. He has urged the Security Council to provide funds and aid access to prevent "these looming human catastrophes." (11.03.2017) Mohamed Abdullahi Farmajo has been sworn in as Somalia s new president. Twenty-one candidates took part in the poll, which had been delayed several times. (08.02.2017) A car bomb that exploded&nbsp;outside a military base in the Somali capital on Sunday has&nbsp;killed at least 15 people, a military official said.&nbsp;Authorities have warned, however, that the death toll could rise as a minibus carrying passengers&nbsp;was also destroyed in the blast."At least 15 people, mostly civilians, died in the blast,"&nbsp;Major Hussein Nur, a military official, said."We do not know the exact figure of casualties. All the people on board the&nbsp;ruined minibus perished. Soldiers and other private security&nbsp;guards also died," he said.&nbsp;'Painful tragedy'Somalia's new military chief, Gen. Mohamed Ahmed Jimale, survived the suicide bomb attack. The general, who had just been sworn into office, was traveling in a convoy with senior military officials when the bomb&nbsp;exploded near Somalia's defense ministry compound, police said."What happened here was a painful tragedy - the blast struck two&nbsp;packed minibuses and no one survived," said Abdifitah Halane, a&nbsp;spokesman for Mogadishu's mayor.Extremist group claims attackIn a&nbsp;brief statement on the Islamist extremist militant&nbsp;group's&nbsp;radio station, Radio Andalus,&nbsp;al-Shabab claimed responsibility for the suicide bomb.The attack came&nbsp;just days after Somali President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed&nbsp;Farmajo announced a military offensive against al-Shabab. Last week,&nbsp;he said fighters would be allowed to surrender and relinquish their&nbsp;weapons within 60 days.ksb/se (AP, Reuters, dpa)