Gaza's ruling Hamas movement executed three Palestinians on Thursday after they accused the men of collaborating with Israel.The group carried out the executions after they vowed revenge for the mysterious killing of one of its commanders last month. Hamas blamed Mazen Faqha's death on the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad and its Palestinian "collaborators".Read: Hamas elects military hardliner to lead GazaThe men, aged 32, 42 and 55, were hanged at an exercise ground inside a police compound, observed by senior Hamas officials, local security chiefs and a few journalists, Hamas said.While the men, who have not been named,&nbsp;were not directly implicated in the March 24 killing of Faqha, Hamas accused them of past acts of "treason and collaborating."&nbsp;They were sentenced months ago for passing information about attack tunnels and other military details to Israel.The military wing of the Hamas movement trains Palestinian Al Qassam fighters to prepare for any possible Israel attack.Assassination accusationsHamas has provided no evidence that Israel killed Faqha, and Israeli Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman has countered the accusation by implying that Faqha may have been killed in an internal Hamas feud.Israel has killed senior Hamas figures in the past and had accused Faqha of planning several deadly attacks against Israelis during the second Palestinian uprising of 2000 to 2005.He was jailed in 2003, after Israel sentenced him to nine terms of life imprisonment for directing the deadly suicide bombings. But Faqha was one of more than 1,000 Palestinian prisoners freed by Israel in 2011 in exchange for a single Israeli soldier.The Islamist militant group has increased security checks and tightly restricted movement following Faqha's assassination,&nbsp;even stopping patients from using the sole crossing from Gaza into Israel to receive medical treatment, Human Rights Watch said.The New York-based NGO also condemned Thursday's hangings."The death penalty is a barbaric practice," it said in a statement. "The abhorrent executions by Hamas authorities of three men in Gaza deemed to be collaborators project weakness, not strength.""Hamas authorities will never achieve true security or stability through firing squads or by the gallows, but rather through respect for international norms and the rule of law."United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on 22 November 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders.This picture, taken on March 26 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the peace treaty in Washington. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. This war eventually led to the peace talks which lasted 12 days and resulted in two agreements.The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions, which involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians, who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time, achieved little, although it did create the framework for later talks.Negotiations, which took place in Norway, between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) resulted in the first deal between the two sides, the Oslo Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period.US President, Bill Clinton, invited Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, and PLO Chairman, Yasser Arafat, to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees, and Jerusalem. Despite more detailed negotiations than ever before, no agreement was reached. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising.The Camp David negotiations were followed by meetings in Washington, then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt. They too were without results. Later, the Arab Peace Initiative was proposed in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to the lines of June 1967, so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries agreed to recognize Israel.The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. In June 2003, Prime Minister Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart Mahmoud Abbas, accepted the road map, with the Security Council also approving it in November. The timetable called for the final agreement to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented.In 2007, US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to re-launch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Olmert, and Palestinian Authority s President, Mahmoud Abbas, took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008.In 2010, special US Envoy George Mitchell s efforts led to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreeing to and implementing a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to re-launch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock.A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence, and eventually led to the launch of the Israeli military operation, Protective Edge, which ended with a ceasefire on 26 August 2014.Envoys from over 70 countries have gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu has slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives are attending the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said at the opening of the event. Author: Aasim Saleem An opportunity for clemencyThe trials were conducted by Hamas-run security courts, and the convicted&nbsp;were executed after all legal procedures were exhausted, the Hamas interior ministry said."The military court in Gaza sentenced them to death by hanging, and the decision was upheld by each military appeals court and the high military court," it said.Hamas has sentenced 106 people to death and executed more than 20 of them under its judicial system since 2007, when the group seized power from Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas in bloody fighting. Since then, Israel and Hamas have fought three wars in the Gaza Strip.Hamas has offered other "collaborators" a chance to turn themselves in for&nbsp;more lenient punishment. The&nbsp;group&nbsp;vowed it would undertake "radical measures" against any Palestinians who "collaborated" with Israel and don't come forward."The doors of repentance will be open for one week, from Tuesday, April 4 to Tuesday, April 11," the interior ministry said.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;mcm/rt&nbsp;(AFP, AP) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1IE0l