He didn't want the little girl to drown. Desiderio Ospina spotted the child in the waves, leaped from his car and tried to help. He scrambled down to reach the 12-year-old girl - but moments later a mudslide swept them both to their deaths.The whole of Colombia has been moved by the story of this Colombian policeman, who would have turned 24 in just a few weeks' time. His father, Enrique Ospina, told it to the daily newspaper "El Tiempo." Desiderio had joined the police, the father said, because he wanted to help others. Bidding farewell to his father the day before his death, Desiderio had said, "Papa, there's going to be a lot of work to do." It was raining hard, and he'd already guessed things were going to get difficult. That was the last conversation the father had with his son.His is one of many terrible stories from the night of the disaster in Mocoa. A massive avalanche of mud, scree and water ploughed through the town of 40,000 inhabitants near the border with Ecuador late on Friday night, bringing death in its wake. On Sunday morning,&nbsp; the news magazine program "semana" reported that horrified helpers had already recovered more than 280 bodies. Many more people are still missing.People have lost many belongings under the mudHuge rocks flattened all before themThe sun rose on a devastating scene: Uprooted trees, collapsed houses and huge rocks that, along with the water, had flattened everything in their path. Aid workers and volunteers with stretchers were scrambling over the rubble, transporting the dead and seriously injured away from the disaster area. Even the professionals were finding it hard to deal with. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2aVytColombia's President Juan Manuel Santos visited the scene to get an idea of the situation. "We'll put together an action plan," he said, looking shocked. Santos announced he would do everything possible to ensure that the dead were buried with dignity. German Chancellor Angela Merkel has also expressed her sympathy with the victims of the disaster: On Sunday, the deputy government spokesman, Georg Streiter, said in Berlin that Merkel was deeply saddened by the immeasurable suffering of the people of Mocoa.Colombia's President Santos immediately declared an emergency so that the appropriate funds could be released from the national budget. On Sunday morning Santos flew back to the stricken region. He announced that 30 percent of the usual monthly rainfall had fallen in a single night. The small rivers around Mocoa had been unable to channel such a huge quantity of water, and the fatal mudslide was the result. Scientists have reported that deforestation in the area has caused severe erosion in the mountains.As in Peru a few weeks ago, Colombia too is currently being hit by unusually heavy rains. Furthermore, this disaster has cut the town's "umbilical cord." There is no electricity, no water, no gas. The hospital doesn't have enough beds, medicines or resources to treat the many casualties.Colombian president: "We'll put together an action plan" - but he seemed shockedSeventeen districts affectedA total of 17 Mocoa districts have been affected. Many houses simply no longer exist: The people in them didn't stand a chance. The ground literally gave way beneath their feet, washed away by the sudden, unexpected flood. Other victims were crushed or drowned in the debris.The Colombian army and the Red Cross are making a superhuman effort. An airlift is painstakingly being organised to fly the injured out and relief aid in. Survivors are being brought to emergency shelters.The district of San Miguel is particularly hard-hit. Colombians commenting on news reports in the big papers say the town is unrecognizable. The mayor of Mocoa, Jos Antonio Castro, has explained that many people were in fact warned in time, but hadn't then managed to get out of the affected areas and into higher parts of the town. There's been criticism of the weather forecast, saying it was too late in issuing a warning.President promises reconstructionIn all this chaos, President Santos has nonetheless dared to look to the future. He says he intends to rebuild the parts of town that have been destroyed. Colombia is experienced in dealing with catastrophes: In the country's recent history, earthquakes and volcanic eruptions have frequently resulted in tragedy. The pain of the victims, however, weighs heavier than the loss of infrastructure. "Desiderio died because he tried to help a little girl," the policeman's brother tells himself, trying to find comfort. And at the moment, any comfort at all is in short supply in Mocoa.A surge of mud and water slammed into the southwestern Colombian town of Mocoa late on Friday night. The army described how three nearby rivers burst their banks, causing a huge "avalanche" of mud that damaged roads and swept away people, cars and homes.Several streets were turned into rivers of mud by the extreme weather, which followed several days of torrential rain. The muddy waters carried a torrent of debris through the town and residents said they had very little time to escape.Locals described returning to the town at daybreak on Saturday and finding "bodies all over." Rescue teams continued to search for possible survivors over the weekend as more than 200 residents remained missing. Many streets were left in an unrecognizable state, filled with rocks, wooden planks and mud. More than 1,100 soldiers and police officers were called in to help dig people out in 17 affected neighborhoods in the province of Putumayo. Mocoa was left without power or running water, and there were reports of people looting stores in search of bottled water.Several deadly landslides have struck Colombia in recent months. But even so, the scale of the Mocoa disaster is likely to haunt residents for many years. The town's mayor said several neighborhoods and two bridges were destroyed. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos is due to pay a second visit to the disaster area on Sunday. "Here we are facing a disaster caused by nature, by climate change," he said earlier. He's already declared a state of emergency and pledged aid to those affected.The subsiding waters have left buildings and vehicles partly buried in the mud. Eduardo Vargas was among many local residents to return to Mocoa on Saturday, saying there is "nothing left. But thank God we have our lives." Author: Nik Martin &nbsp;