The authors of the email described the Dortmund bus attack as a "final warning" and threatened another strike next Saturday in Cologne, the German "Tagesspiegel" daily reported on Friday.The message mentions Adolf Hitler and derides multiculturalism, adding that a "Cologne squad" is standing by to spill "colorful blood." This could be a reference to the upcoming pro-tolerance rally in Cologne, where protesters are set to rally against the anti-immigration AfD party. One of the protesters' slogans is "colorful instead of brown," with brown symbolizing fascism, the "Tagesspiegel" said.German federal prosecutors are examining the email in Karlsruhe, spokeswoman Frauke K hler confirmed to the DPA news agency.Fake evidence to mislead officials?The anonymous note is casting further doubt on preliminary reports that Muslim extremists were&nbsp;behind the bombing that injured two people. Upon inspecting the scene on Tuesday, police found three identical letters that&nbsp;allegedly&nbsp;mentioned the "Islamic State" militia, slammed Chancellor Angela Merkel, and demanded that Germany pull&nbsp;its jets from the campaign in Syria.However, investigators now have "significant doubts" - the letters could be fabricated to mislead the authorities, German public broadcasters and the "S ddeutsche Zeitung" reported on Friday. The officials also received a claim of responsibility from a left-wing group, but the prosecutors reportedly doubt its authenticity as well.According to German media, the authorities were also considering the possibility that a foreign security service was behind the bombing. The attacker allegedly used military-grade detonators for the triple blast, which are very hard to come by in Germany.Three explosions occured near Borussia Dortmund's team bus on the way to their stadium for a Champions League match against AS Monaco. Police have said that the explosives were placed on the street, in a location where the bus would have been forced to slow down. Some media reports have said that the bombs were made from homemade materials.Prosecutors have said that a note was found near the bombs claiming responsibility for the attack. This led police to confirm that the incident was indeed a "premeditated attack." Later, German media reported that federal prosecutors had taken over the case. This usually indicates suspicion of terrorism or a similarly serious crime.Dortmund defender Marc Bartra was injured by flying glass and taken to the hospital. A police officer who was nearby on his motorcycle was also hurt. The bus was badly damaged.Fans were told to wait inside the stadium until the situation was cleared. The game was then postponed, and will be played Wednesday instead with heightened security. Police praised fans for their calm response.The rearranged fixture will be a "huge challenge," according to CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke, who added that the players were professional enough to do the job. "The whole team is in a state of shock, you can't get pictures like that out of your head," he said. "I hope the team will be in a position to be able to compete tomorrow on the pitch. In a crisis situation like this, Borussia pulls together."Both teams will receive extra personal security for Wednesday's game, as there is some speculation the attack was carried out to hurt Dortmund's chances. Prosecutors have said they are seeking suspects on attempted murder charges.Although police said they found a note by the explosives, they have not made public its contents, so a motive remains unclear. However, German media claimed that it said "in the name of Allah, the merciful." Authorities have said they do not yet have a suspect in the case, nor are they completely certain that the Dortmund team was the intended target. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher &nbsp;