Swedish authorities have denied knowledge of the man labeled "Swedish defense and national security adviser" on "The O'Reilly Factor." Appearing on Fox News, the analyst lamented Stockholm's failings on immigration. (26.02.2017) Moscow has decried comments made by Fox News host Bill O'Reilly, in which he labeled Vladimir Putin 'a killer' during an interview with Donald Trump. The US president had repeatedly reiterated his respect for Putin. (06.02.2017) Telecommunications giant Deutsche Telekom and several other German firms have stopped advertising on the US media outlet Breitbart. A similar snub by Kellogg's had sparked a furious response from the right-wing site. (07.12.2016) Roger Ailes, the chief of Fox News, has resigned amid a lawsuit over sexual harassment. He was replaced by Rupert Murdoch, head of parent company 21st Century Fox. (21.07.2016) "The O'Reilly Factor" had&nbsp;lost about a dozen advertisers by Tuesday, with German carmaker BMW, Japan's Mitsubishi and US-based insurance company Allstate pulling their ads from the show. Other big names included Toyota, Mercedes Benz, and British pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKlin. The controversy started with the New York Times publishing an investigative article on the show's conservative host Bill O'Reilly. According to the Saturday report, O'Reilly and the Fox News paid $13 million dollars (12.2 million euro) to five different women, settling harassment suits and allegations of inappropriate conduct against the TV personality. Only two of the cases were previously known. "While it's hard to tell what the facts are, the allegations are disturbing," Mercedes-Benz spokeswoman Donna Boland said."Given the importance of women in every aspect of our business, we don't feel this is a good environment in which to advertise our products right now."No 'merit' to accusationsWith the Fox News deciding to stand by its biggest star, the cable network faces increasing pressure from companies and groups such as The National Organization for Women (NOW) who asked for O'Reilly to be fired. "The reported use of his powerful position to repeatedly manipulate women reveals a cruel misogyny that runs to the core of his character," the group said.&nbsp;The latest controversy comes after Fox News was forced to oust its chief Roger Ailes, a close confidante of the company's founder Rupert Murdoch, over similar charges. The NOW also asked for an independent investigation into the "culture of sexual harassment" at Fox News.On Monday, Fox News contributor Julie Roginsky filed a separate sexual harassment suit against Ailes.O'Reilly believes that the claims against him have no "merit", the Fox News said in a statement.Most watched in USThe 67-year-old TV celebrity is the network's top revenue producer, according to research by the Kantar Media firm.His long-running show remains the most watched cable news program in the US, averaging around four million viewers.&nbsp; "The O'Reilly factor" reportedly brought Fox over $178 million in ad dollars in 2015 and $118.6 million in the first nine months of 2016. The network was working with its "partners to address the concerns" around the sexual harassment &nbsp;suit, Fox News told the media."At this time, the ad buys of those clients have been re-expressed into other (Fox) programs," said Paul Rittenberg, executive vice president for ad sales. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2XNBz dj/rc&nbsp;(AP, Reuters, AFP) &nbsp;