Germany's coalition government began the week by making a coordinated, all-out bid for the parental vote in this September's election.The opening salvo was fired by Horst Seehofer, head of the Christian Social Union (CSU), who took to the mass-circulation weekly "Bild am Sonntag" on Sunday to announce a "strong packet of measures for a family policy offensive in Germany."Seehofer, whose regional Bavarian party enjoys national power thanks to an age-old alliance with Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU), said families will be a "central issue" in the upcoming campaign.Read: The pros and cons of Merkel's grand coalition in GermanyThough the CDU-CSU's actual election manifesto will only be finalized in the summer, proposals on the table included one-off payments for new parents to cover necessities like buggies, extra tax relief for extra children, phasing out kindergarten fees, and a reduction in social security contributions for poorer families. CDU General Secretary Peter Tauber also chimed in by floating the idea of giving parents financial help buying property.The government says it wants to encourage more dad timeQuality dad timeThere's an obvious reason why the conservative half of the Germany's centrist government should want to make early in-roads on this subject. Family policy is under the aegis of the popular Family Minister Manuela Schwesig, of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), which is neck-and-neck in opinion polls with the CDU, and enjoys a better reputation among German voters on social policy.Read: German social democrats eager to push same-sex marriage bill ahead of electionIndeed, it didn't take long for Schwesig to respond to the CDU's "offensive" with some of her own ideas, which she presented on Monday at SPD headquarters in Berlin. These included an extra "family benefit" of 150 euros ($160) a month for all parents of children under eight - under certain conditions. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2ZUsdA measure designed to better balance work and family duties between parents, the extra cash could be claimed if the father (who generally works full-time) reduces his working week to 26 - 36 hours, while the mother (who generally works part-time) increases her working week to "something close to full-time."Read: German managerial women's quota 'working', says SchwesigFathers "should be encouraged to take more time for the family, and we want to encourage mothers to become economically active," Schwesig said. The benefit would be available to single parents too, she added, before claiming that the measure would pay for itself, because getting moms into work would increase tax revenue.Schwesig's plan was criticized by family groups and the Left partyWhere have you been?The two main opposition parties were less than impressed with this sudden interest in the nation's families. "They haven't really done any of this during the four years in government," said Franziska Brantner, family policy spokeswoman for the Green party. "It's like they're now discovering there are kids in Germany.""Last week in parliament, we voted through a bill on childcare facilities, which provides money for the next four years for 100,000 places - even though the expert&nbsp;commission&nbsp;said this represented a third of what was actually necessary - and that was last week!" Brantner told DW. "And now they're going out and talking about childcare facilities for free. They don't even have the spaces! Don't tell them it's going to be for free! It's so ridiculous."By the same token, on Tuesday, Schwesig also announced plans to adopt children's rights into Germany's constitution - something the Green party has been advocating for 25 years, Brantner said, before adding the Greens would vote for such measures "wholeheartedly." "Come on guys, you've been in government and you are in government now - do it," she said.The most important part of every German child's first day of school is the "Schult te," or school cone. Apparently the thought of attending school every day for the next 12-13 years has to be "sweetened" with candy and presents - a tradition that dates back to the early 19th century. Parents fill the cones, either homemade or purchased, with treats, school supplies and small gifts.Most children in Germany are six years old when they start school in August or September, depending on which state they live in. The majority of them have already spent a few years in daycare or pre-school, which is not part of the public school and is less pedagogical in nature. For kids in Germany - and often their parents too -, first grade is a big adjustment.Ahead of the first day of school, parents buy their new first-grader a backpack, known as a "Schulranzen." They're often made with a square frame to make sure papers don't get bent and snacks don't get squished. Later, their jeans brand will be important, but for first-graders, it's crucial to have the trendiest design on their backpack. This year, Star Wars motives are in; Superman is a staple.After they get their square backpack, it will need to be filled with pens, pencils, rulers and folders ahead of the first day. In Germany, particularly younger children often don't have lunch at school. Instead, they have a mid-morning snack time and go home or to daycare for a late lunch. To transport their "Pausenbrot," or "break bread," they'll need an appropriate box.Many kids around the world pose for a first day of school photo. In Germany, they hold up their unopened "Schult te" - which is often larger than they are - along with a sign reading something like "My first day of school." For many children, it's not the highlight of their big day.The first day of school in Germany doesn't start with school - but with a special ceremony. Parents, relatives and godparents are invited to join in. An ecumenical church service is usually included in the tradition, giving the young pupils a special blessing as they mark a right of passage and embark on their educational journey. Some schools offer an interreligious ceremony for Muslim pupils.During the ceremony, older children or teachers often give a small performance and explain to the newcomers how school works. In some schools, first-graders are assigned a buddy from third or fourth grade to show them the ropes.A tour of the school is included in the introductory festivities and first-graders are shown their new classrooms, which are labeled "1A," "1B," "1C," etc. depending on the size of the school. This chalkboard reads, "Welcome, class 1A."After the ceremony at school, families organize their own celebrations. Grandparents, relatives, godparents and friends are invited for a meal or cake to see the youngster of honor off into the brave new world of education. The first-graders themselves probably get annoyed at all the head patting and cheek squeezing - but they usually get a few presents to make up for it.After the ceremony is over, the cake has been eaten and the cone of goodies unpacked, the first day of school draws to a close. The next day, the first-graders have to find their new classrooms for their first lesson. Elementary school in Germany includes grades one to four. After that, pupils move on to one of three different levels of secondary schools, depending on their academic performance. Author: Kate M ser Invest, don't hand outThe socialist Left party's J rn Wunderlich was less enthusiastic. "These policies sound socially responsible, but if you look at them you see it's nothing new," the Left's family policy spokesman told DW. "Similar measures were promised at the last election. For example, it sounds very nice that you want to raise tax-free allowances for children - but it only makes sense for the people who earn enough to make it worth it. For&nbsp;people who earn the average wage or below, it doesn't make a difference." Instead, Wunderlich said child benefits should be raised to ensure that all children benefited equally.Read: Study finds two million poor children in wealthy GermanySimilarly, Wunderlich doubted whether the 150 euros that Schwesig was offering parents represented a massive incentive. According to him, a better plan would be to invest public money into state child care. "What is important is creating the opportunity, by creating better child care," he said. "There is still massive demand for kindergarten places that isn't being covered. The problem is that the local authorities have to finance it - Seehofer says: we want free kindergartens, but he doesn't explain where the money will come from."Read: Left party tries to distinguish itself with ambitious election platformSebastian Heimann, director of the DFV, Germany's main family interests' association, was even more scathing, suggesting that the ideas of both CDU and the SPD were actually more harmful to families - especially Schwesig's proposal: "It doesn't mean more time for children, but actually less time for children," he said. "The project is aimed at mothers and fathers who are both working normally for 80 or 90 percent of the time. It can't be the point of such measures to support double-income earners, while families with just one income are left standing in the rain financially. In fact, this isn't a family support measure, but an economic policy." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2QipX