Frauke Petry's decision not to run as the AfD's lead candidate in Germany's national election doesn't signal the end of her quest for power. She considers another choice more important, says Kay-Alexander Scholz. (19.04.2017) Germany s right-wing AfD has gotten off to a rough start at its national convention in Cologne. For protesters, though, the day was as much a street party as about the political party. DW S Elizabeth Schumacher reports. (22.04.2017) DW takes a look at the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party - the newest force in German politics. What is it, where did it come from and what role will it play in the 2017 election? Here are all the answers. (20.01.2017) The populist AfD party should be "unmasked point by point," said Volker Bouffier, premier of the German state of Hesse and an ally of Chancellor Merkel. His broadside comes 15 months before the next federal election. (19.06.2016) Delegates to the&nbsp;widely-protested&nbsp;congress in Cologne of the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party chose Gauland and Weidel Sunday after&nbsp;Petry failed on Saturday to moderate the party's role. Gauland is widely regarded as the AfD's lead tactician and advocate of right-wing nationalism.The 600 delegates voted by 67.7 percent to endorse Potsdam-based Gauland, 76, who once had various roles in Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrat (CDU) party, especially in Hesse in the late-80s, and Weidel from the AfD's Baden-W rttemberg branch.To applause, Weidel, a business consultant active in China,&nbsp;said the AfD would "not be forced to keep its mouth shut," adding that "political correctness" belonged to the "waste heap of history."Just before last year's Euro 2016 soccer championship, Gauland said Germans valued national football player Jerome Boateng - whose father is Ghanaian - as a sportsman but "would not want to live next to someone like him."The AfD's other co-chairman, J rg Meuthen, like Petry, also did not seek electoral candidacy, but was applauded by delegates.Anti-immigrant, anti-EuroThe AfD, already with opposition footholds in 11 of Germany's 16 regional state assemblies, also adopted a program platform for the September 24 federal election, largely focused on stemming "unrestrained mass immigration" into Germany.&nbsp;Their policy program also calls for Germany's departure from&nbsp;the eurozone and reintroduction of a new national currency - to be again called the Deutsche-Mark (DEM).Delegates also endorsed measures to boost birthrates and promote families by motivating Germans to bring more children into the world to maintain what they termed the nation's Staatsvolk or "own constitutive people."The AfD is 'dangerous,' says Catholic spokesman L cking-MichelWidespread opposition to AfDOutside the venue, at Cologne's central Maritim Hotel, an estimated 10,000 opponents of the AfD, drawn from some 70 civic groups, protested Saturday, with the city tightly guarded by 4,000 heavily equipped police officers.In further opposition, the Catholic church's youth organization, Bund Neudeutschland (ND) described the AfD's policies as contrary to the Christian view of humanity.&nbsp;&nbsp;The ND's executive meeting in W rzburg at the weekend said interaction between Christians and the AfD was "wrong and dangerous" and described its family and gender policies as attempts to&nbsp;"ethnically instrumentalize" people of other origins."The AfD is folk-nationalist and foreigner-hostile," said ND director Claudi L cking-Michel, who is also a CDU parliamentarian in Merkel's ranks.During Saturday's Cologne protests, Catholic bishop&nbsp;Kardinal Rainer Maria Woelki said participants were out on the streets to emphasis "world-openness, tolerance and solidarity."Petry, in conference remarks on Saturday, described the&nbsp;church statements about the AfD as "derogatory" and "ugly."German border police should shoot at refugees entering the country illegally, the co-chair of the AfD has said. Officers must "use firearms if necessary" to "prevent illegal border crossings," the 41-year-old told a regional newspaper in 2016. Communist East German leader Erich Honecker was the last German politician who condoned shooting at the border.The head of the AfD in the state of Thuringia made headlines for referring to Berlin's Holocaust memorial as a "monument of shame" and calling on the country to stop atoning for its Nazi past. The comments came just as Germany enters an important election year - leading AfD members moved to expel H cke for his remarks. Deputy Chairman Alexander Gauland said the German national soccer team's defender Jerome Boateng might be appreciated for his performance on the pitch - but people would not want "someone like Boateng as a neighbor." He also argued Germany should close its borders and "suffer the cruel pictures. We can't be blackmailed by children's eyes."Initially, the AfD campaigned against the euro and bailouts - but that quickly turned into anti-immigrant rhetoric. "People who won't accept STOP at our borders are attackers," the European lawmaker said. "And we have to defend ourselves against attackers." Alternative for Germany's North Rhine-Westphalia state chairman Marcus Pretzell, who is also Frauke Petry's new husband, wrote "These are Merkel's dead," shortly after news broke of the deadly attack on the Berlin Christmas market in December 2016. The member of parliament in Germany's eastern state of Saxony recently made waves with an inquiry into how far the state covers the cost of sterilizing unaccompanied refugee minors. As of last July, 52,000 unaccompanied minors sought asylum in Germany, according to the Federal Association for Unaccompanied Minor Refugees (BumF) - the vast majority of them young men. Poggenburg, head of the AfD in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt, has also raised eyebrows with extreme remarks. In February 2017, he urged other lawmakers in the state parliament to join measures against the extreme left-wing in order to "get rid of, once and for all, this rank growth on the German racial corpus" - the latter term clearly derived from Nazi terminology. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach ipj/jlw&nbsp;(KNA, dpa, AFP)