Despite its name, the "Schalker Meile" is actually just under one mile long. Flanked on both sides by endless rows of flats and terraced housing, it would be an unremarkable street if not for the blue flags, banners and signs which adorn the pubs and shops.The road runs north from Gelsenkirchen city center, through the working-class district of Schalke where a group of young coal miners founded a football club in 1904. Inside the Auf Schalke pub, DJ Ludi is getting the fans warmed up.DJ Ludi and the fans in the 'Auf Schalke' pub get ready for the season's biggest home game"Today is good against evil!" he screams into the microphone. "Today the plague is in town!" Many Schalke fans refuse to even mention their rivals' name here, referring to them simply as "the others." Peter, responsible for the Bratwurst crackling away on the barbecue, has another pestilence-related metaphor."It's the derby against the ticks," he says - tiny flies which bite and irritate. "They're like little animals, little insects which you just don't need but you can't get rid of them!"So, does anyone have anything positive to say about Borussia Dortmund? "It's good that they're third and not first!"'The same, though many would never admit it'Insults and rivalry aside however, Gelsenkirchen and Dortmund are extremely similar places. Separated by a mere 30 kilometers in the heart of Germany's industrial Ruhr region, both cities grew rich from coal and steel in the last century. Young workers from both cities founded football clubs to give some organization to their passion."There's very little difference," explains Martin from Schalke's fan project. "We're the same, although many would never admit it. Both are workers' clubs, both sets of fans have that working-class mentality typical of the Ruhr region. We even speak the same. It's a rivalry founded on similarity."Indeed, both cities have also suffered similar fates since the closures of their vital industries."Gelsenkirchen is one of the poorest cities in Germany," Martin continues. "In the last three years, our city had the highest level of child poverty in the country. We've been left stranded as a city."Bar-owner Ralf believes Dortmund has dealt with de-industrialization better - and says its famous football club has played a vital role. "Dortmund has developed better as a city," he says. "Many banks and insurance companies and other service providers moved there on the back of Borussia Dortmund's success in the 1990s."The sun set on the coal industry in the 'Ruhrgebiet' years agoDembele's impactDortmund have pulled ahead of their neighbors on the pitch as well and went into Saturday's 150th competitive Revierderby 13 points ahead of their rivals, looking to get a key month off to a positive start. And in a Bundesliga where the buzzword is "international" rather than "industrial," it was fitting that Dortmund's French starlet Ousmane Dembele stood out in a tight first half.Ousmane Dembele was a bright spark for the visitors, especially early onHe set the tone early on with a skillful dribble past Schalke debutant Coke and almost set up Felix Passlack with a well-placed diagonal ball, but the German's control let him down. When Dortmund took the lead early in the second half, it was inevitable that Demb l would be involved, playing a brilliantly timed through ball to Shinji Kagawa who laid it off to Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang to roll into an empty net.The Gabonese striker celebrated his 24th Bundesliga goal by pulling on a mask in front of the jubilant travelling contingent who, without the leadership of Dortmund's boycotting ultra-groups, had otherwise been rather subdued. Schalke's hardcore supporters on the Nordkurve, on the other hand, only got louder.Schalke's rediscovered gritA certain stubbornness and togetherness has come to characterize Markus Weinzierl's team in the last month, twice coming from behind to beat Borussia M nchengladbach in the Europa League before a battling victory at Mainz before the international break.The locals seem satisfied that Schalke have found their fight again as the season's climax nearsWhen asked what has changed, Peter doesn't hesitate. "They're fighting now," he responds as he flips another Bratwurst on the grill. "You can see that we have more structure in our play and that the players really want it."That spirit was on show again in the second half. Despite the ever-present threat of a Dortmund counter-attack (only the post prevented Dembele from doubling Dortmund's lead), Schalke pushed forward and were rewarded when the otherwise quiet Leon Goretzka laid the ball back for 20-year-old Thilo Kehrer to fire home the equalizer - his first goal for the Royal Blues, and what a time to get it."I'm really pleased for Thilo," captain Benedikt H wedes told press afterwards. "It's great for such a young player to score such an important goal and right in front of the Nordkurve as well."It could have been even better in injury time, but referee Felix Zwayer waved away claims for a penalty after the ball struck Marc Bartra's arm in the box. "It's not one the referee has to give," said a diplomatic Thomas Tuchel post-match, "but he certainly could have done."As the Schalke players remained on the pitch to thank the Nordkurve, the importance of another fighting performance was clear to see."There's such a strong sense of identity in Gelsenkirchen," said Martin at the fan project stand. "It sounds harsh but there aren't many other things in our city. When everything else dies, all that remains is the love for our club. That makes us strong."Schalke and Borussia Dortmund shared the points in Gelsenkirchen, drawing 1-1. Youngster Thilo Kehrer scored his first ever professional goal to level the scores, netting in his 11th Bundesliga game for the Royal Blues. Home fans might have felt hard done by in stoppage time, when a handball penalty appeal against Marc Bartra was turned away by ref Felix Zwayer.No Spiderman or Batman and Robin routine this time, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang donned a mask of his own making to celebrate opening the scoring in the derby away to Schalke. A look at his Instagram account reveals the providence of the new costume, it appears to be connected to a Nike promotional bid to dub the fun-loving Gabonese star "The Masked Finisher." Bayern Munich's 6-0 cruise against Augsburg was punctuated by another Robert Lewandowski hat trick. The Pole moves up to 24 Bundesliga goals for the season, dead even with Aubameyang. It's also the fourth straight season in which he's scored 22 or more, and the sixth consecutive Allianz Arena game with Lewa on target - he's the first player ever to manage that. Creator Thiago had a great game too.Werder Bremen's uptick in form continues. Max Kruse scored a belter against his old club in Freiburg to kick off a 5-2 victory. But Thomas Delaney had an even better day at the office, marauding forward from his holding role in midfield to score a hat trick. He laid on another for Finn Bartels, too. Delaney went home on the team bus clutching a big, plastic number 3. Don't milk it, fella!You could forgive Thorsten Frings for struggling to stomach matters at the moment. Darmstadt remain rooted to the foot of the Bundesliga table - something a 4-0 defeat in Leipzig won't change. Naby Keita bagged a brace against the Lilies, who conceded three of the four in the last half hour. Darmstadt have lost seven of their last nine, albeit beating Mainz and Dortmund in that time.HSV's positive run continues, especially at home in the Bundesliga. Markus Gisdol's lads have won four of their last five up north in the league, drawing the other game. Saturday's 2-1 win over Cologne came despite some heroics between the sticks from keeper Timo Horn. This winning goal from Lewis Holtby only fell after two spectacular saves from the goalie shown lying flat on his back.A red card for Hertha's Maxi Mittelst dt turned Friday's fixture in Berlin. The match stood 1-1 at the time, but Hoffenheim pinned their hosts down once they had the extra player. Sandro Wagner didn't get on the scoresheet, but had a busy night and created one of Andrej Kramaric's goals. He also suffered a dislocated index finger in the first half and played through the pain.Borussia Dortmund and Eintracht Frankfurt's goalless draw did not live up to its pride of place on the fixture list in the Saturday evening spot. Neither side really threatened, save for a Frankfurt penalty for handball by Oscar Wendt. Marco Fabian stepped up, but Yann Sommer batted the ball away. Honors even.