It was an unlikely decision. And, with only 67.7 percent of the Alternative for Germany (AfD) voting in favor of the party's 2017 federal candidates, the choice of Alexander Gauland and Alice Weidel is anything but convincing.Read more: 10 things you need to know about the AfDIn the party's&nbsp;newly passed manifesto, the AfD has dire news for Germany's democracy: A "secret sovereign ... has cultivated itself in the existing political parties."It is through the very ranks of Germany's political establishment, however, that the 76-year-old Gauland learned the trade that he&nbsp;his now putting to use with&nbsp;the AfD. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2blcIAnti-refugee sentimentBorn in the eastern city of Chemnitz in 1941, Gauland would flee the German Democratic Republic&nbsp;at the age of 18 to study law and political science at the Philipps university in Marburg. However, as large numbers of displaced people sought asylum in Germany in 2015 and 2016,&nbsp;Gauland was quick to say that his own experience had not been that of a refugee."That is something else: I'm German," Gauland said. "And I went from Germany to Germany. It is quite different when someone comes from Eritrea or Sudan. He has no right to the support of a foreigner. "Read more: AfD's rightward tilt may prove riskyIt was during his studies in Marburg, that Gauland became best acquainted with the intricacies of the German political system, as shown in his bachelor thesis on "the principle of legitimacy in state practice since the Vienna Congress."Gauland knows Germany's constitution. He knows when to speak out. But also, more importantly for the far-right AfD,&nbsp;he knows where to toe the constitutional&nbsp;line.Alexander Gauland in November 1988 whilst working as state secretary at Hessen State ChancelleryBefore AfD party leader Frauke Petry was even born, Gauland had already begun his career as a member of the conservative Christian Democrats (CDU), working at the parliament press office in Bonn, then the capital of West Germany. By 1975, he had moved to the Scottish capital, Edinburgh, to work as a press officer at Germany's general consulate. For over 30 years, he has worn a&nbsp;tweed green jacket, the kind most commonly associated with the aristocrats and landowners of Britain's past.Read more: AfD's Frauke Petry will not stand as lead candidate in 2017 German electionsDisillusioned in CDUUpon returning to Germany, Gauland became the right-hand man of the&nbsp;CDU's Walter Wallmann, the mayor of Frankfurt at the time. Standing by Wallmann as he served both as Germany's environment minister and later the state premier of Hesse, Gauland became widely regarded as one of the trusted liberal minds of the CDU.In 1991, after the coalition of the CDU and Free Democrats (FDP) gave way&nbsp;to a Social Democrats-Greens government in Hesse's state election, Gauland began his second career as a publicist and became editor of the cross-regional daily M rkische Allgemeine in Potsdam, where he stayed until&nbsp;2005. German border police should shoot at refugees entering the country illegally, the co-chair of the AfD has said. Officers must "use firearms if necessary" to "prevent illegal border crossings," the 41-year-old told a regional newspaper in 2016. Communist East German leader Erich Honecker was the last German politician who condoned shooting at the border.The head of the AfD in the state of Thuringia made headlines for referring to Berlin's Holocaust memorial as a "monument of shame" and calling on the country to stop atoning for its Nazi past. The comments came just as Germany enters an important election year - leading AfD members moved to expel H cke for his remarks. Deputy Chairman Alexander Gauland said the German national soccer team's defender Jerome Boateng might be appreciated for his performance on the pitch - but people would not want "someone like Boateng as a neighbor." He also argued Germany should close its borders and "suffer the cruel pictures. We can't be blackmailed by children's eyes."Initially, the AfD campaigned against the euro and bailouts - but that quickly turned into anti-immigrant rhetoric. "People who won't accept STOP at our borders are attackers," the European lawmaker said. "And we have to defend ourselves against attackers." Alternative for Germany's North Rhine-Westphalia state chairman Marcus Pretzell, who is also Frauke Petry's new husband, wrote "These are Merkel's dead," shortly after news broke of the deadly attack on the Berlin Christmas market in December 2016. The member of parliament in Germany's eastern state of Saxony recently made waves with an inquiry into how far the state covers the cost of sterilizing unaccompanied refugee minors. As of last July, 52,000 unaccompanied minors sought asylum in Germany, according to the Federal Association for Unaccompanied Minor Refugees (BumF) - the vast majority of them young men. Poggenburg, head of the AfD in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt, has also raised eyebrows with extreme remarks. In February 2017, he urged other lawmakers in the state parliament to join measures against the extreme left-wing in order to "get rid of, once and for all, this rank growth on the German racial corpus" - the latter term clearly derived from Nazi terminology. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach It was arguably his published books on conservatism, in which his tone became increasingly gloomy and pessimistic,&nbsp;that are most emblematic of his shift to the right and his eventual&nbsp;move to the AfD. In 1989, Gauland further displayed his shift to the right with an essay for the Frankfurter Rundschau titled "What Is Conservative.""It is necessary to mitigate cultural shocks and make habituation processes possible by means of conservative abatements for modernization," Gauland wrote. "This is the task of a party with conservative roots."'German dominant culture'?In his best-known book, 2002's "Anleitung zum Konservativsein" (Instruction on Being Conservative), Gauland bemoaned what he considered the diminished roles of concepts such as "Heimat" (homeland) and "deutsche Leitkultur" (German dominant culture) in political discourse. Railing against the "fun society," he also demanded a "deceleration" of technical progress. But it would take another decade before Gauland jumped ship from Chancellor Angela Merkel's CDU and joined the AfD.Together with the publicist and journalist Konrad Adam and economist Bernd Lucke, Gauland founded the euroskeptic Wahlalternative 2013 (Election Alternative 2013), which quickly became the AfD.By February 2014, Gauland was elected regional chairman of AfD Brandenburg and led the party into the state parliament with 12.2 percent of the vote just seven months later. Now, Gauland has his sights set on surpassing the 5 percent vote threshold for the AfD to enter Germany's federal parliament in Berlin.But national support for the AfD has suffered immensely in&nbsp; recent months, with opinion polls falling from a high of 16 percent last September to just 9 percent amid party infighting. Gauland&nbsp;himself has become a particularly divisive figure for his public outbursts.During last year's Euro 2016 football tournament, the AfD was forced to apologize after Gauland said Germans valued national player Jerome Boateng - whose father is from Ghana - as a sportsman but "would not want to live next door to someone like him."Read more: Jerome Boateng represents multicultural Germany and should be his country's new captainEarlier this year, Gauland&nbsp;called for a ban on Muslims, and in 2016 he said that "not everyone who holds a German passport is German."Gauland's comments regarding German national footballer Jerome Boateng sparked the hashtag #BoatengIsMyNeighbourAfD's dark horse&nbsp;Alice Weidel's history is much less documented than her running mate's. Faced with Gauland's outlandish statements, her mission is seemingly to represent the moderate wing of the AfD, creating the image of a party with broader appeal.At first glance, the 38-year-old Weidel could be a member of Germany's liberal FDP. She is a studied economist, investment banker and startup entrepreneur with experience in China. Even her private life is liberal compared with the image of the AfD. Weidel lives with her long-term female partner and their child.&nbsp;In contrast, the AfD, according to its manifesto, seeks to motivate Germans to bring more children into the world to preserve the country's "own constitutive people" - a description that bears worrying similarities to the notion of the "Mutterkreuz" (Mother's Cross) awarded to women during the Third Reich for producing offspring with "German blood."Though Weidel&nbsp;might come off as a liberal in the far-right AfD, that didn't stop her from declaring on Sunday that&nbsp;"we are the only party for Germany!" The most applause came, however, when she addressed the results of Turkey's recent controversial referendum, telling supporters of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Germany to "go back to Turkey!"Read more: Turkey election board rejects referendum annulment appealsIn the coming weeks, a contentious issue between Gauland and Weidel could be how to handle the AfD member Bj rn H cke. In his first interview since being elected as AfD candidate on Sunday, Gauland told German broadcaster ZDF that H cke "belongs to the party as much as Frauke Petry." Weidel, however, has stood by Petry's call to exclude H cke from the party after the Thuringia AfD leader described Berlin's Holocaust memorial in January as a "monument of shame."Read more:&nbsp;'H cke's apology is part of a strategy,' expert saysWith just five months left to pull the party back together in the hope of boosting support, unity is lacking - not least between the unlikely duo of newly elected top candidates. It seems right now that the only thing uniting them is the AfD's campaign posters. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2Yw6p