German state prosecutors on Wednesday&nbsp;said they assume the attack on the Borussia Dortmund bus had a "terrorist motive."&nbsp;"We found several letters of responsibility. One of them suggested a possible Islamist motive. Another demands the withdrawal of German military in Syria and the closure of the US facility at Ramstein,"&nbsp;said Frauke K hler, a spokeswoman for the federal prosecutor's office."We currently have two suspects from the Islamist milieu. One of the two has been arrested," she added. Police noted that metal rods had been placed in the explosives to cause significant harm. A rod had pierced one of the bus' seats, according to authorities.Earlier, security officials had said they were investigating an alleged message from the far-left Antifa claiming responsibility for the attack, but K hler said investigators expressed "considerable doubts" that it was genuine.Three explosive devices detonated near Borussia Dortmund's bus on Tuesday&nbsp;as it was leaving the team's hotel on its way to the Champions League quarterfinal match with French side Monaco.Spanish defender Marc Bartra was injured in the explosion and underwent&nbsp;surgery for injuries to his wrist and lower arm, but has since thanked his team mates and fans for their support in a message published on social media platform Instagram.Click here to read more: 'Champions League: After bus attack, Dortmund look to refocus on Monaco'"As you can see, I am doing much better. Thank you everybody for all your support and your messages! All&nbsp;my strength to my team mates, supporters and fans, and to BVB for tonight's match," Bartra said, referring to the team by its initials.The match was rescheduled for Wednesday evening. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2b8HP'Despicable act'German Chancellor Angela Merkel condemned the "despicable act."&nbsp;She&nbsp;called Borussia Dortmund CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke personally to offer her solidarity."Our thoughts today are with the players with Borussia Dortmund, with the fans. And we hope that it can be a peaceful and good game," she said in a statement.Ralf J ger, interior minister for the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, where Dortmund is located, told the press that police&nbsp;were "investigating every possible avenue" in relation to the attack, whether it be far-left, far-right or Islamist in nature.J ger called on the public to "give the police some time," to do their job properly, adding that it was possible more suspects would be found.'We will not give in to terror'Borussia Dortmund managing director Hans-Joachim Watzke said the team will not cave into terror following an attack on their bus on Tuesday.Click here to read more:&nbsp;'Humanity prevails as football fans stand together in Dortmund'"I've just been in the changing rooms and called on the team to show everyone out there that we will not give in to terror," Watzke said in a statement."We're not just playing tonight for ourselves. We're playing for everyone, whether they're Borussia Dortmund, Bayer or Schalke. We want to show that terror and hate shall never determine our actions," he added.Three explosions occured near Borussia Dortmund's team bus on the way to their stadium for a Champions League match against AS Monaco. Police have said that the explosives were placed on the street, in a location where the bus would have been forced to slow down. Some media reports have said that the bombs were made from homemade materials.Prosecutors have said that a note was found near the bombs claiming responsibility for the attack. This led police to confirm that the incident was indeed a "premeditated attack." Later, German media reported that federal prosecutors had taken over the case. This usually indicates suspicion of terrorism or a similarly serious crime.Dortmund defender Marc Bartra was injured by flying glass and taken to the hospital. A police officer who was nearby on his motorcycle was also hurt. The bus was badly damaged.Fans were told to wait inside the stadium until the situation was cleared. The game was then postponed, and will be played Wednesday instead with heightened security. Police praised fans for their calm response.The rearranged fixture will be a "huge challenge," according to CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke, who added that the players were professional enough to do the job. "The whole team is in a state of shock, you can't get pictures like that out of your head," he said. "I hope the team will be in a position to be able to compete tomorrow on the pitch. In a crisis situation like this, Borussia pulls together."Both teams will receive extra personal security for Wednesday's game, as there is some speculation the attack was carried out to hurt Dortmund's chances. Prosecutors have said they are seeking suspects on attempted murder charges.Although police said they found a note by the explosives, they have not made public its contents, so a motive remains unclear. However, German media claimed that it said "in the name of Allah, the merciful." Authorities have said they do not yet have a suspect in the case, nor are they completely certain that the Dortmund team was the intended target. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher ls, es/kms (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)