German aid charities have reported a marked increase in the number of young migrants turning to prostitution in Germany. That's according to an investigation published on Monday by Berlin broadcaster rbb&nbsp;in cooperation with a number of local charities.The increase has seen more young men to sex work, namely of Afghan, Pakistani and Iranian backgrounds.Aid charities see Germany's wavering social system as the catalyst for the rise. Once refugees turn 18 they no longer qualify for state support for young people, forcing them to turn to prostitution as a way to make ends meet. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2au90Broadcaster rbb&nbsp;reported that most of the meetings are set up through online forums. Berlin's Tiergarten park has also become point of reference for older men seeking to pay for sex with adolescents boys.Government&nbsp;integration policy 'failed'Chairwoman for the Left Party in Berlin Katina Schubert said the "harrowing stories" of young refugees turning to prostitution were likely also plaguing the rest of Germany and showed that "the German government's integration policy has failed."Germany has stepped up the pace of rejected asylum applicant deportations. Often, however, no one notices what many of these people have accomplished in the country, says a Christian Democrat mayor from southern Germany. (29.03.2017) There is a growing shadow population of thousands of migrant children across Europe living on their own, without families or help from authorities. To survive, many of them fall into crime, trafficking or prostitution. (15.06.2016) Camilla was a sex slave in Europe. Back in Nigeria, she s fighting for a new life. (30.01.2016) Schubert said: "Without a proper perspective in life, young people - regardless if they've come to Germany as migrants or not - risk putting themselves in danger. We desperately need more helpers and organizations that care for young homeless people, as well as programs that give them a chance to learn German and go to school."Last year, Germany recorded a trade surplus record of 253 billion euros ($267&nbsp;billion), amounting to 8.7 percent of the country's gross domestic product. More of that money urgently had to go into funding integrations and social policy, the Left Party lawmaker&nbsp;said. "Otherwise thousands of minors risk the same fate as the young Afghans, Pakistanis and Iranian men in Berlin's Tiergarten.Illegal migrants don't have much choiceHowever, Ralf R tten, chairman of the charity "Hilfe for Jungs" (translation: Help for Boys) said&nbsp;the problem is largely caused by German government's asylum and deportation policies,&nbsp;rather than a lack of access to social services."The majority of them aren't allowed to take part in German lessons," R tten said.&nbsp;"They aren't allowed to go to school, or to work. What kind of alternatives are out there for young people?"R tten said he had even heard stories of illegal migrants recommending among one another to prostitution in the Tiergarten as means of making money.&nbsp;dm/kms (AFP, KNA, rbb)Refugees often have to make do with camping beds like these at Cologne-Bonn airport when they first reach Germany. Officials are trying to set up temporary homes for the 800,000 migrants that are supposed to arrive in the country this year.A mother with her two children at a temporary refugee shelter in Neu Isenburg, Hesse. The former newspaper printing press is now frequented by journalists reporting on the refugee crisis.Refugees have infused new life into Manheim, a village in the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia, which was supposed to be torn down for lignite mining. The few inhabitants of Manheim were thrilled to have 73 asylum seekers move in.The chancellor's popularity may be sinking in Germany, but Merkel has won a huge fan base with Syrians fleeing the war. Here, she poses for a selfie with a refugee at a shelter in Berlin's Spandau area.New migrants in some towns are being temporarily housed in tents - like in this camp in western Germany's Duisburg. However, locals say the standards are not good enough and that the tents will provide no safety in case of attacks by right-wing extremists.Several refugee shelters have been attacked by far-right extremists. Five people were wounded in the attack on this container home in Rottenburg in the state of Baden-W rttemberg.Refugees arriving in Germany for the first time have to wait long hours outside the social housing office in Berlin. The long delays have resulted in fist fights, leading police to put up barriers.This Syrian refugee family finally found a house in Bonn last year. Many refugee families spend over three months in container homes in Germany, but the administration plans to speed up the process of finding an apartment, so that migrants can begin living a normal life as soon as possible.Flowers bloom in lush gardens as Germans mingle with refugees. This picture represents a utopian idea developed by building and design theory researchers at Hannover university - a utopian vision that many hope will be reality some day.