Bastian Schweinsteiger's first Major League Soccer game ended in a 2-2 draw with the Montreal Impact on Saturday evening.&nbsp;The veteran Germany international opened the scoring after just 17 minutes wearing yet another red jersey - that of the Chicago Fire. Late in the game, he rescued a draw for the Chicago Fire, who played much of the second period with just 10 men after Juninho received his marching orders.&nbsp;Schweinsteiger netted with a header from the back post, rising to meet a cross from the right flank and powering the ball home - delighting his new employers.Schweinsteiger has a habit of scoring at timely moments, a trait he's seemingly transported across the AtlanticJust over 15,000 spectators turned out for the German's debut at the Toyota Park, but would have been disappointed to see the Impact recover and take a 2-1 lead against Chicago's 10 remaining men. Schweinsteiger was again involved in salvaging a tie, picking out striker Luis Solignac with a lofted pass. Solignac took a touch to control and then blasted in the equalizer.Schweini kept busy throughout the match, although his lack of recent game time did seem to impact his mobility somewhatThe 32-year-old had a strong game in attack and defense alike, even rolling back the years and showing off his dribbling skills near the corner flag at one point.&nbsp;Schweinsteiger moved to MLSas it became apparent he was surplus to requirements at Manchester United under Jose Mourinho. The Portuguese manager, who even sent Schweini to train with United's under-23s at one point, has since said it may have been a mistake not to give the midfield playmaker more minutes, acknowledging that he would have been a useful addition to the squad late in the season.&nbsp;Prior to his 2014 move to the English Premiership, Bavarian Schweinsteiger spent more than a decade with Bayern Munich, winning an array of silverware including the Champions League. Now retired from the German national team, after 121 caps and 24 goals, Schweinsteiger was part of 2014's World Cup-winning squad.&nbsp;"Der Kaiser" left Bayern Munich for the New York Cosmos in 1977 as one of a number of star signings that included Pele. In four seasons in New York, Beckenbauer won the NASL title three times before returning to Germany. After two years with Hamburg, he was persuaded to return to New York and enjoyed a final swansong with the Cosmos.The former longtime Bayern Munich player has become the latest German star to seek his fortune in America, having signed a one-year contract with Major League Soccer club Chicago Fire. The former Germany captain, who saw little playing time at his previous club, Manchester United, was welcomed by hundreds of fans upon his arrival at O'Hare International Airport. Beckenbauer was joined in the NASL by former Bayern and Germany teammate Gerd M ller. The Bundesliga's all-time record goal scorer moved to Fort Lauderdale Strikers in 1979 and kept up his incredible strike rate. In his three seasons in Florida, M ller scored 38 goals in 71 appearances. 1974 World Cup winner and Eintracht Frankfurt legend Bernd H lzenbein (pictured right) was briefly a teammate of M ller's in Fort Lauderdale. H lzenbein joined just as M ller was leaving in 1981. There were more compatriots in the shape of the coach at the time Eckhard Krautzun (middle) and former Bayern and F rth midfielder Eduard Kirschner (left).Another World Cup winner, this time of the 1990 vintage, became the first German to move to the nascent MLS in 2000. The MetroStars, who were based in Harrison, New Jersey, were the last port of call in Lothar Matth us' storied playing career. Although he helped the side to the 2000 playoffs in his single campaign, he played only 16 games and his tenure there was seen as a disappointment. Former Bremen, Dortmund and Bayern midfielder Torsten Frings (pictured scoring against the Montreal Impact) spent the twilight of his career in the MLS with Toronto FC. Frings joined the Reds in 2011 and helped them win the Canadian championship (a tournament involving just four teams) in 2012, but a recurring hip injury forced him to hang up his boots midway through his second year at the club.By the time Frings' former Bremen teammate, Frank Rost, moved to America, Matth us' MetroStars had been rebranded as the New York Red Bulls. The goalkeeper signed from Hamburg in 2011, but only made 11 appearances in his solitary season in Major League Soccer.If Schweinsteiger needs any tips on life in the Windy City, he need look no further than his former international teammate, Arne Friedrich. The former Hertha Berlin defender blazed the trail to Chicago Fire in 2012, making 24 appearances before his career was prematurely cut short by a back injury. Much-traveled midfielder Christian Tiffert signed a three-year contact with Seattle Sounders in 2012. However, after making just 16 appearances, he was released after his first year and moved back to Germany to join VfL Bochum. It has not just been on-field German legends who have been attracted to the United States. Coach Hennes Weisweiler (pictured right with Pele) took charge of the New York Cosmos in 1980 after a trophy-laden Bundesliga career with Borussia M nchengladbach and Cologne. In his first season, Weisweiler secured the NASL title. He departed for Grasshopers Zurich in 1982. Author: Chuck Penfold, Rob Turner