German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel was in Kosovo on Thursday, urging Pristina to improve relations with neighboring Serbia as it seeks entry into the European Union. The EU, for its part, should invest more in infrastructure projects in the struggling nation."The Federal Republic of Germany will keep its word to hold the door open for all western Balkan countries,&nbsp;who seek to join the bloc," Gabriel said.Opinion: The new war of words in the BalkansIn talks with Prime Minister Isa Mustafa, Gabriel praised Kosovo's "tremendous&nbsp;progress" thus far on trying to normalize relations with Belgrade and a border deal with Montenegro, but questioned why the parliament was holding up the visa liberalization process necessary for EU ascension.&nbsp;The trip&nbsp;came just a day after a visit to&nbsp;Serbia, as part of Gabriel's&nbsp;goodwill tour encouraging the Balkans to pivot towards Brussels and away from the&nbsp;nationalism&nbsp;and xenophobia that threaten to stoke old tensions. Since declaring independence from Serbia nine years ago, tensions have remained high between Pristina and Belgrade, as the latter still considers Kosovo a breakaway province.Nevertheless, Gabriel was full of praise for Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, who was elected president earlier this month. The German diplomat called Serbia an "anchor of stability" in the region, though he did caution that better relations with Kosovo were "an essential precondition for accession to the European Union."Read: Europe is the powder keg - the Balkans are the fuseIn the late 1990s, the conflict in Kosovo was escalating as tens of thousands of people fled the region. After all efforts at pacifying the region failed, NATO began carrying out air raids on military bases and strategic targets in Serbia on March 24, 1999. Eleven weeks later, Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic finally gave in.In the mid 1980s, protests began in Kosovo against government attempts to curtail the rights of the Albanian majority. The reprisals worsened in the 1990s. Ibrahim Rugova, leader of the political movement in Kosovo since 1989, tried to make Milosevic change course using peaceful resistance - without success.An armed resistance formed in Kosovo. The self-appointed liberation army UCK started a brutal guerrilla war and carried out violent attacks against Serbs and Albanians whom they saw as collaborators. Serbia reacted with retaliatory measures: Houses were torched and shops plundered, as hundreds of thousands fled the region.As time passed, the war became ever more brutal. Serbian forces increasingly attacked civilians with the aim of breaking the UCK's resistance and its support among the population. Many people looked for refuge in the forests. Trains and trucks transport thousands of people to the borders - without passports or other documents which could prove that their home had been in Kosovo.Under the auspices of the US, France, the UK, Russia and Germany, the conflicting parties attended a conference in Rambouillet, France in February 1999 with the aim of working out a limited settlement guaranteeing Kosovo's autonomy. Representatives of Kosovo accepted the conditions of the deal, but their Serbian counterparts were not willing to make any concessions. The negotiations failed.On March 24, 1999, NATO began bombarding military and strategic targets in Serbia and Kosovo in order to stop the violence against Albanians. Germany joined the military action, known as Operation Allied Force. It was NATO's first war in its 50-year history - and that without the official backing of the UN Security Council. Russia sharply condemned the intervention.Next to military installations, NATO also attacked transportation networks such as railroad tracks and bridges. During the following 79 days and nights, the alliance carried out more than 37,000 operations with 20,000 rockets and bombs striking Serbian territory and killing countless civilians - what NATO referred to as "collateral damage."Industrial sites were also among the targets. NATO bombs hit chemical plants and a fertilizer factory in the town of Pancevo near the capital, Belgrade. Huge amounts of toxic substances made their way into rivers, soil and the air, with grave health consequences for the local population. Serbia accused NATO of having used depleted uranium ammunition, as well as cluster and fragmentation bombs.In order to deprive Slobodan Milosevic of his most important propaganda tool, NATO decided to attack Serbia's public television station in Belgrade. The Serbian government, although told of the attack in advance, withheld the information from the public. Sixteen people lost their lives in the bombing.In Kosovo, NATO bombs inadvertently hit a group of Albanian refugees, killing an estimated 80 people. More "collateral damage" occurred when NATO bombed the Chinese embassy in Belgrade, killing four people. The incident led to a severe diplomatic crisis between Beijing and Washington.In early June, communications out of Belgrade showed that Milosevic was finally willing to make concessions. NATO brought an end to its raids on June 19. During the air strikes, thousands of people were killed, 860,000 refugees were displaced and Serbia's economy and infrastructure were largely destroyed. Kosovo was placed under the administration of the United Nations. Author: Sonila Sand / ad As for the massive protests that have sprung up in response to Vucic's election, which opposition voices say he won only through manipulation and suppression, Gabriel told the Serbian leader to "get used to it.""If you want to get into the EU, you must know that demonstrations and protests against democratically-elected governments and president are possible, permitted and within the EU, quite common," he said.Gabriel will continue his tour of the Balkans in Albania on Monday. Albania was one of the first countries willing to recognize Kosovo's independence, of which about 114 worldwide now do. There are about 1.6 million ethnic Albanians living in Kosovo, and Albanian is an official language.es/rt (AFP, dpa)