US President-elect Donald Trump has rejected claims that North Korea is close to test-launching an intercontinental ballistic missile. He criticized China, however, for not pulling its weight in discouraging Pyongyang. (03.01.2017) In a Q&amp;A session with foreign journalists, Social Democrat Martin Schulz said there would be no big defense spending boosts in the context of NATO. Instead, he stressed the primacy of the European Union. (10.04.2017) Tests on victims of a suspected chemical attack in Syria's northwestern Idlib province have confirmed the use of deadly sarin gas. Syria's president,&nbsp;Bashar al-Assad, has denied accusations that Damascus was responsible. (11.04.2017) The US Secretary of State was seeking to push Moscow to end its support of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The Kremlin on the other hand demanded an explanation of the "contradictory" US policy regarding the conflict. (12.04.2017) Trump has pledged to work on "upgrading" NATO and making it more suitable to modern challenges&nbsp;like&nbsp;migration and terrorism.Appearing alongside Stoltenberg at a Washington press conference on Wednesday, Trump reaffirmed America's commitment to the alliance.The US President also praised changes NATO has made in fighting terror."I said it was obsolete," Trump said, referencing his widely publicized campaign statement. "It's no longer obsolete."Speaking about his upcoming visit to Brussels, Trump stressed that every generation needed to find a way to adapt NATO to their times."We must not be trapped by the tired thinking that so many have, but to apply new solutions to face new circumstances throughout the world," he said.NATO chief Stoltenberg praised America's role in NATO, specifically mentioning the troops the US recently deployed in Eastern Europe. He also lauded NATO's contributions to the US, saying that no other superpower ever had such backing.Thanks to NATO, "America has the best friends and allies in the word," he said.Paying 'what they owe'Both Stoltenberg and Trump urged other NATO countries to raise their defense spending to the recommended target of 2 percent of&nbsp;GDP."In facing our common challenges, we must also ensure that NATO members meet their financial obligations and pay what they owe," Trump said. "Many have not been doing that.""If the other countries pay their fair share instead of relying on&nbsp;the US to make up the difference, we would all be much more secure and our partnership would be made that much stronger."'It would be wonderful' to get along with RussiaIn an apparent jab at Russia, President Trump also criticized the&nbsp;use of chemical weapons in Syria, which the West blames on the Syrian regime allied with Moscow."The vicious slaughter of innocent civilians with chemical weapons, including the barbaric killing of helpless small children and babies must be forcefully rejected by any nation that values human life," he said. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2b9XQHowever, the president remained elusive when asked about future relations between Washington and Moscow, saying that he was waiting to hear from Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. The State Department chief is currently visiting Russia."It would be wonderful if NATO and our country could get along with Russia," he told reporters. "(Vladimir) Putin is the leader of Russia, Russia is a strong country, the US is a very strong country and we will see how it all works out," he said.&nbsp;