Three Bundesliga clubs could face sanctions from the DFB thanks to the misbehavior of their more radical supporters in the stands. The German football association said on Monday that it had launched investigations against Hamburg, Eintracht Frankfurt and FC Cologne, saying that it expected all three clubs to promptly submit written statements on the incidents.&nbsp;Only one of the three incidents had a palpable impact on the pitch.&nbsp;When Hamburg supporters let off a smoke bomb early in the game against Darmstadt, the referee was forced to stop play for a few minutes until the air was clear. The smoke wafted on to the pitch, clouding over the goal that Hamburg's keeper Christian Mathenia was guarding.&nbsp;Once the game restarted, visitors Darmstadt bagged three big points, winning 2-1Cologne&nbsp;ultras hit Hopp way below beltTo the south and west in Cologne, it was an incendiary message - one the home club stressed it had not approved - that garnered the DFB's attention.&nbsp;Fans took aim at the owner of visitors Hoffenheim, SAP software company co-founder Dietmar Hopp. One large banner portrayed a skantily-clad&nbsp;woman holding a handbag labeled SAP in one hand and a piece of paper purporting to be a "birth certificate" in the other. It said: "Name: Dietmar Hopp. Mother: whore. Father: Nazi."&nbsp;Cologne and Hoffenheim drew 1-1 in the Friday fixtureThe Billy Goats' spoting director J rg Schmadtke called the banner "an insult whose lack of respect cannot be overstated." Cologne's club president Werner Spinner said after the game that he had apologized&nbsp;to Hopp."These insults are unacceptable and they do not reflect the values we stand for at FC Cologne," Spinner said. Hoffenheim's Alexander Rosen spoke of a "new dimension of hate."&nbsp;Dietmar Hopp, the SAP software mogul who bought the tiny village football club he played for as a kid and propelled it all the way to Germany's top flight, is one of the first symbols of the Bundesliga's new generation of clubs built on corporate cash. To fans of teams like FC Cologne, who like to refer to themselves as teams with "tradition," these newcomers are "plastic clubs."The issue has arguably been pushed even further to the forefront this season, given the success of Red Bull-backed RB Leipzig.&nbsp;Tensions were also high in Cologne&nbsp;with the presence of the right-wing political party Alternative for Germany (AfD), which held its party conference in the city center ahead of September's general election.The party's&nbsp;presence at the Maritim Hotel was met with&nbsp;protests in Cologne. Another banner under the image, addressed to Hopp, asked: "In the Maritim tomorrow? Your father&nbsp;would be proud." Hopp's father Emil was in the SA during World War II.Read:&nbsp;Bundesliga: Hoffenheim grab deserved leveler as European dream comes trueRead:&nbsp;Opinion: Under Nagelsmann, Hoffenheim are well-primed for European footballFrankfurt banner against policeDown in Frankfurt, meanwhile, fans took aim at German police - apparently in a bid to protest recent efforts to ban ultras who committed vandalism from the ground. "For every stadium ban... a dead cop!" the message, placed right behind the goal,&nbsp;read.&nbsp;Eintracht's board member Axel Hellmann told mass-circulation German daily Bild that the club would be formally apologizing to police.&nbsp;"Whatever criticisms you might have of the police in certain instances, this shames us right to the core," Hellmann said.Eintracht wound up 3-1 winners against Augsburg.Like Cologne's, and indeed Hamburg's, part of Frankfurt's fan base has&nbsp;something of a reputation in the Bundesliga.&nbsp; If Borussia Dortmund was disappointed in their Champions League exit, they didn't show it on Saturday. They came back to beat Borussia M nchengladbach 3-2 to move up to third place. Gonzalo Castro (right) found the head of Raphael Guerreiro (left) on the free kick to hand Dortmund the three points. Goals have been in short supply at the Commerzbank Arena since the winter break. The Eagles had managed just three goals in their previous six league games. But trailing 1-0 at home Augsburg, Marco Fabian (left) swung the pendulum around with two goals to fire Niko Kovac's side to a 3-1 win.Who said Darmstadt were dead and buried? The Lillies are fighting until the death in the Bundesliga, beating Hamburg 2-1 at the Volksparkstadon - their first away points of the campaign. Last week, Darmstadt avoided the drop at home with a dramatic win over Schalke. Torsten Frings' side still require a miracle to survive, but they aren't giving up.Vedad Ibisevic (left) has turned his career around in the German capital. His winning goal at home to Wolfsburg kept Hertha Berlin in pole position to qualify for the UEFA Europa League for the second successive season. Ibisevic's tally is up to 12 for the season and the Old Lady won't stop singing for now.Hardly anyone would have given Mainz a chance in Munich. But goals from Bojan and Daniel Brosinski caused trouble for the champions who could see their lead at the top reduced to six points. The goal from Bojan (right) in the third minute made him the first Spanish player to score in Europe's top four leagues.Bremen defender Luca Caldirola, teammate of Max Kruse (pictured), tweeted to the DFB for him to be called up to Jogi L w's squad. In this kind of form, who can blame him? Kruse scored four goals for the green-and-whites who made it 10 games unbeaten in the Bundesliga. Werder Bremen have gone from the relegation playoff to now having a chance of reaching Europe.So, that is that. Hoffenheim will be in Europe, at least, next season. A last-gap equalizer from Kerem Demirbay (pictured) denied Cologne three valuable points, but sealed Hoffenheim's spot in history. Julian Nagelsmann's men can make Champions League football a done deal at home to Eintracht Frankfurt next Sunday.15 ... 16 ... 17. Timo Werner just cannot stop scoring in the Bundesliga. The former Stuttgart striker was a menace in attack for Leipzig in Sunday's late meeting with Schalke. His header opened the scoring, and he created the other key chances for the second-placed side. If he continues this form, there will be a call from L w soon enough.Christian Streich couldn't have asked much more from two of his substitutions. The first, Havard Nielsen, provided the clever lay off to the second, Pascal Stenzel. The youngster, who is on loan from Dortmund, finished off superbly to send Freiburg back into the top six. Author: Ross Dunbar, Davis Van Opdorp, Matt Ford