The format is known on television around the globe: Drama in the kitchen? A scant list of reservations? Meager menu? Call for the professionals. Such is the premise of German TV show "Kochprofis" (professional cooks) which aims&nbsp;to help struggling restaurateurs and improve their economic situation.But one couple in southwestern Germany is now accusing the show's producers of destroying their business.Read more: Classic German cuisineOwners of the "Beef!erei" steakhouse Gregor Weber and Katja Schwarz-Weber claim that following numerous booking cancellations and abuse on social media, they were forced to close down their business within just two days of the show being broadcast late last year."If I could reverse everything, I would, and then I would have my restaurant," Schwarz-Weber told the German daily paper&nbsp;Stern. A spokesman for RTL2 rejected the allegations.False representationThe couple who both previously worked in the kitchen said the program falsely represented their characters by wrongly portraying Weber as ill-tempered.On applying to the show, Schwarz-Weber said she wanted to return to service and, with the help of the "Kochprofis," find a suitable cook to replace her in the kitchen.No milk, no eggs, no meat: Just a couple of years ago, people who shunned all animal products were generally regarded as freaks. Now, though, more and more consumers are going vegan. They want to eat healthily and support the environment. Restaurants, grocery stores, cookbooks and classes for vegetarians are booming. So what's all the fuss about?For one, vegetarians have turned around the image of the joyless greenie - thanks in part to stars like Mike Tyson or Gwyneth Paltrow, who vigorously promote a vegetarian lifestyle. One of the most famous German vegetarians is chef Attila Hildmann (left). He has sold 300,000 copies of his vegan cookbooks. Veganism is, he says, "a great, crisp, sexy alternative - and you can easily lose weight."Books like "Vegan for Fit" have climbed the bestseller lists. Hildmann promotes a diet that opens up the vegan movement to a whole new target group: those who want to lose weight. But vegans don t generally see this as their primary objective Veganism is about protecting both animals and the environment, and promoting an ethical alternative to factory farming. It's become much easier to stick to a vegan diet since vegan grocery stores and restaurants began to spring up everywhere, especially in the big German cities. According to the German Vegetarian Association, there are about 800,000 vegans in Germany - and the number is growing.Schnitzel made from soybeans, cheese without cow's milk, vegan dog food: Marketing experts say there's huge potential for vegan products. Even discount supermarkets now sell soy milk. Vegan grocery stores even offer products made to order. But being vegan means more than just watching what you eat: It's an all-encompassing lifestyle that includes doing away with leather and other animal products.There are vegetarians all over the world. "The movement is traditionally strong in the US and the UK," says Sebastian Z sch of the German Vegetarian Association. "But Germany has slowly taken on a leading role." As well as among Europeans and Anglo-Americans, the movement has also caught on in Brazil and in Buddhist countries.Even the Bavarian Oktoberfest caters to vegetarians these days. Alongside roast pork and chicken, soy medallions, vegetarian chicken fricassee (pictured) and vegan red wine are also on offer. Is vegan the new organic trend? Sebastian Z sch thinks so: He believes that Western countries are moving towards a complete vegan world. Factory farming would then become a thing of the past.Scientists disagree over whether a vegan lifestyle really is more healthy and sustainable. But vegans do tend to be less susceptible to diseases associated with modern civilization, such as Type 2 diabetes. "Being vegan is an option. But that doesn t mean you have to change your entire life," says chef Attila Hildmann. He doesn t want to convert people - he just wants to offer alternatives.Rosemary polenta with mangold mushrooms, eggplant curry with chickpeas, and salad with silk tofu dressing: In recent years, eating vegan has redefined itself as culinary indulgence. When it comes to currywurst sausage, cream cake, and cheese sandwiches, vegetarians are out of luck - and yet the vegetarian trend is still going strong. Author: Marie Todeskino /sst They have destroyed our lives"We had no problems with our kitchen, with the food or the service, but rather with our location," Schwarz-Weber said. "We had no outdoor seating and also no area for our garbage. That's why we needed the help from the Kochprofis."According to the couple, the "Kochprofis,"&nbsp;Ole Plogstedt, Andi Schweiger und Frank Oehler, failed during the program to present a workable concept and instead advised only to close down.Read: 10 ways to eat a German sausageThe trio of chefs also allegedly picked out the financial aspect as a "flaw," with the restaurateurs also claiming that the list of finances and debts featured in the show&nbsp;weren't a true representation."They have destroyed our lives," the couple said.In response to the allegations, RTL2 said: "If the protagonists feel misrepresented, we regret that. We can defend all the contents of the show in question that were broadcast, but we do not comment on production details."Andi Schweiger and Frank Oehler were two of the three "Kochprofis" to appear on the showJust paid actorsThe German broadcaster already came under fire from a different owner, Christine Handl, who ran the small-town restaurant "Alte Schule" in Mohrkirch, northern Germany.She too claimed&nbsp;that her business was forced to close after she was badly represented in the program."At the end of the day&nbsp;the 'Kochprofis' are just paid actors," she told the local Schleswiger Nachrichten newspaper.RTL also denied those&nbsp;allegations, saying that nobody was obliged to ask for the show to visit their business.