As an ethnic North Korean, Kim Myong-chol says he lives in "a hostile environment" in Japan. There have so far been no reports of Japanese targeting North Koreans living here, but as concern over the possibility of a missile or nuclear attack rises, Kim says incidents have happened in the past and are possible to occur again."There have been attacks by right-wingers on children from North Korean schools at times of tension in the past, but it has been quiet so far," he told DW. He added that police have had a higher presence close to schools affiliated with Chongryon, the association that represents North Korean residents of Japan, since previous incidents.When Pyongyang confirmed in September 2002 that its agents had abducted 13 Japanese citizens, there was an upsurge in anger aimed at the North Korean community in Japan. There were demonstrations outside the fortress-like headquarters of Chongryon, which serves as North Korea's embassy in Japan as the two nations have no diplomatic ties, while schools received threatening phone calls and pupils were roughed up on their way to and from schools.Home searchedKim, who is executive director of The Centre for North Korea-US Peace and an unofficial mouthpiece of the Pyongyang regime, said he has been a target of the Japanese authorities in the past and that police once searched his home for communications equipment on the suspicion that he was an agent.Despite the pressure that he lives under, Kim is adamant that North Korea will emerge triumphant in this latest confrontation with the United States, South Korea, Japan and a growing number of other states arrayed against it."We are confident that the North Korean government will defeat the US; we have no doubts about it at all," he said.There are an estimated 610,000 Korean residents in Japan; the majority of them are descendants of forced laborers brought here during Japan's colonial occupation of the Korean Peninsula. Around 150,000 still swear allegiance to the North Korean regime.And many in Japan are concerned that North Korean doctrine and adulation for the ruling family of Kim Jong Un are being instilled in the younger generation of North Korean children in Chongryon's schools.Across Japan, there are about 60 schools - ranging from kindergartens to universities - that are affiliated with Chongryon. Portraits of Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il, the present dictator's grandfather and father respectively, look down on pupils in every classroom and students are taught an alternative view of the world. In history classes, for example, they learn that South Korea and the US started the Korean War in 1950 by invading the North. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2bvIDAround 10,000 children of ethnic Koreans attend the schools, down significantly from the 40,000 that attended Chongryon schools in their heyday, in the 1970s.Abolition demandIf Ken Kato had his way, the institutions would be abolished. "It is like having a school for the so-called Islamic State or al Qaeda in Japan," he told DW. "The children at these schools are taught to hate Japan, to hate the US and to carry out a revolution to invade South Korea so that they can 'liberate' its people."They teach these children to use violence and promote values that are the opposite of peace, freedom and democracy," said Kato, who is director of Tokyo-based Human Rights in Asia and a member of International Coalition to Stop Crimes Against Humanity in North Korea.There are also suggestions that teachers at North Korean schools in Japan are assisting the regime to carry out criminal activities, Kato noted.So Kay Se, the former headmaster of Shimonoseki Korean School, is wanted by the police here for allegedly helping to smuggle 250 kilograms of amphetamines into Japan, while Kim Kil Uk, the former head of Osaka Korean School, is on Interpol's wanted list in connection with the abduction of Tadaaki Hara from Miyazaki Prefecture in June 1980.The US aims to pressure North Korea into ending its nuclear and ballistic missile programs with tightened sanctions and diplomacy. Top officials hope to end the standoff peacefully, but have also raised military options. (27.04.2017) International media point to North Korea's confrontational approach and warn of a potential war on the Korean Peninsula. But South Koreans are responding with equanimity. Fabian Kretschmer reports from Seoul. (19.04.2017) China's president has urged US President Donald Trump to show restraint in dealing with North Korea. Trump also spoke with Japan's premier Shinzo Abe as a US fleet heading to Korean waters trained with Japanese warships. (24.04.2017) Various North Korean diplomats have responded to the recent rising of tensions between the country and the United States. The statements followed US VP Pence's visit to the Demilitarized Zone on the Koreas' border. (17.04.2017) Hara is just one of the dozens of Japanese that North Korea abducted to instruct its agents to infiltrate society here. Pyongyang claims he died in 1986 but has provided no evidence.Both So and Kim are believed to have escaped to North Korea.Kato is among those who believe that more should be done to stop North Korean residents of Japan abetting the regime in Pyongyang.Billions sent to PyongyangBillions of yen earned by North Koreans living in Japan - through means both legitimate and illegitimate - have been funneled to Pyongyang, although the Japanese government last year closed one loophole by banning bank remittances to North Korea. According to Kato, as many as 40 percent of the members of organized crime groups in Japan are Korean, earning money from loan-sharking, illegal gambling operations, prostitution, protection rackets and drugs.Narcotics, in particular, have proved a significant source of income for Pyongyang.In December 2001, a North Korean vessel disguised as a fishing boat opened fire on Japanese Coast Guard vessels about 300 kilometers off southern Japan. In the ensuing six-hour firefight, the 15-strong North Korean crew was killed and the boat was sunk.When it was subsequently raised, it was discovered that the vessel had been fitted with a concealed anti-aircraft gun and stern doors to allow a smaller boat to be deployed, presumably to deliver drugs or agents onto a Japanese beach.In April 2003, a North Korean freighter was boarded off Australia and authorities found 50 kilograms of heroin, with a street value of tens of millions of dollars.In both cases, the North Korean government denied any involvement. In other cases, North Korean diplomats have been accused of using the diplomatic bag to import drugs that are then sold.Through front companies, Chongryon is also suspected of illegally procuring technology that could benefit the North's nuclear and missile programs.With 700,000 active troops and another 4.5 million in the reserves, North Korea can call upon almost a quarter of its population to serve in the army at any given time. Every male in the country is required to undertake some form of military training and can be called to serve at any time. The North's bloated army is believed to outnumber its southern neighbor's by two-to-one.The 2016 Global Firepower Index revealed the North had, as part of a far-reaching arsenal, 70 submarines, 4,200 tanks, 458 fighter jets, 572 fixed-wing attack aircraft among others. The picture above from 2013 shows leader Kim Jong Un ordering strategic rocket forces to be on standby to strike US and South Korean targets at any time.Every year, hundreds of thousands of soldiers and citizens role through the streets of the capital Pyongyang to take part in the North's military parades. Preparations for the rallies often begin months in advance and are usually held on an important anniversary of the party or Kim Jong Un's family.Despite pressure from the international community, Pyongyang has made no secret of its nuclear ambitions. Alongside its ritual ballistic missile tests, North Korea has conducted nuclear tests on five occasions, two of which in 2016. The country claimed that the last warhead it tested could be attached to a rocket. Alongside the United States, Pyongyang views its neighbors South Korea and Japan as its two other main enemies. North Korea's has used US' military exercises in the regions as means of galvanizing its people, claiming that the exercises are dress rehearsals for impending invasion.In April, the US sent its Carl Vinson aircraft carrier towards the Korean Peninsula, saying it was taking prudent measures against the North. Pyongyang has vowed to "react to any mode of war." Intelligence officials estimate that North Korea could be less than two years away from striking the US. It seems increasingly les likely that US President Trump will allow that happen.Blanket denialKim Myong Chol, a Korean writer and editor based in Japan, angrily denies all the accusations, answering "not true" when asked about the purchase of banned technology, the transfer of funds to North Korea, Chongryon's involvement in the abduction of Japanese nationals or the suggestion that North Korean children are being trained to embrace the violent overthrow of Pyongyang's enemies."Total nonsense," he concludes.Kato says he has never seen the geopolitical tensions in East Asia become so serious."I overheard some young children the other day discussing where they planned to hide when a missile struck," he said. "It is a tragedy that they even have to think these things."But there is a bitter irony in North Korean residents' unquestioning support for the regime in Pyongyang, he pointed out."For years, they have been smuggling technology to the North and sending money back to fund the development of its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs, but the missiles they have paid to build will not make any distinctions if they fall on a Japanese city," he said. "They will kill North Koreans just as easily as the rest of us."In February, China banned all coal imports from North Korea. Under tight conditions, North Korea may still export $400.87 million (374 million euros) or 7.5 million metric tons of coal per year, whichever is less. Pictured here is China's Liaoning Greenland Energy Coal Co. in Dandong, on the border with North Korea. North Korea is prohibited from opening banks abroad, and UN member states are prohibited from operating financial institutions on Pyongyang's behalf. Any dealings that might help North Korea skirt the sanctions are banned, and UN member states must expel and repatriate anyone working on the regime's financial behalf.This North Korean cargo ship found itself boarded for inspection in the Philippines in March 2016 after the United Nations ordered member nations to de-register any vessel owned, operated or crewed on orders from Pyongyang. North Korean ships also cannot fly the flags of other nations to evade sanctions. Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, remains exempt from aviation sanctions and still has scheduled flights to China and Russia, as well as several domestic routes. However, the airline cannot fly to the European Union, which has banned it on safety grounds, and the United States prevents citizens from legally conducting business with the carrier.In theory, North Koreans can still cruise the country in Pyeonghwa sedans, as UN sanctions only currently ban the sale of aviation, jet and rocket fuel to Pyongyang. Crude and similar oils remain permitted - for now. The automaker, owned in a joint venture with the deceased North Korean Reverend Sun Myung Moon's influential Unification Church, only cranks out a few hundred cars a year.UN sanctions limit North Korea's diplomats abroad - at the country's Berlin embassy, for example - to only one bank account each. North Korea is also not permitted to own real estate abroad for any purposes other than consular.It's a safe bet that North Korea's marching military did not learn its moves abroad: UN sanctions ban foreign security forces from training the country's army, police or paramilitary units. The United Nations does permit medical exchanges, but otherwise allow very little assistance of scientific or technical value.Anyone wanting to own a larger-than-life Kim will have to await the end of North Korea's nuclear program. The UN sanctions currently ban the sale of statues by the nation. Author: Milan Gagnon (Reuters, UN)