Three explosions went off near Borussia Dortmund's team bus as it set off for the Champions League quarterfinal match against AS Monaco on Tuesday, authorities said.The bus was damaged by explosive devices placed nearbyPolice spokesman Gunnar Wortmann confirmed&nbsp;there were "three explosions near the (Borussia Dortmund) team bus as they left the hotel to go to the stadium." Dortmund police said on their Twitter account said they "assume that this was an attack with serious explosives."At a press conference on Tuesday in Dortmund, police said they did not want to jump&nbsp;to conclusions&nbsp;by saying the three explosions were&nbsp;a terror attack. "We are assuming that they were a targeted attack against the Dortmund team," said Dortmund city's police chief Gregor Lange. An explosive-like item was found at the team's hotel after the blasts but it did not ignite.&nbsp;A letter had been found near the scene of the blast written by an individual claiming responsibility for the attack.&nbsp;"Its authenticity is being verified," prosecutor Sandra Luecke told journalists, without giving details.Marc Bartra injuriesThe club said defender Marc Bartra injured his arm and his hand and was taken straight to hospital. BVB chairman Hans-Joachim Watzke said Bartra's injuries were not "life-threatening."&nbsp;Borussia Dortmund's representative at a&nbsp;press conference on Tuesday night confirmed that Bartra was undergoing surgery on his injured wrist and lower arm.Defender Marc Bartra sustained hand and arm injuriesThe match, which was to take place on Tuesday evening, was called off and rescheduled to Wednesday."The team is totally shocked, that's clear. It's our task now to digest this somehow because it's only 24 hours before we have to play. That's our job," Watzke was quoted as saying."A proper explosion"Dortmund goalkeeper Roman Burki, who was sitting near Bartra on the team bus, chronicled the incident in an interview with Swiss newspaper "Blick", calling it "a proper explosion.""We departed the Hotel at 19:15 (1715&nbsp;UTC). The bus turned onto the main street when there was a huge bang - a proper explosion," Burki said in the interview. "I sat in the last row next to Marc Bartra, who was hit by splinters of broken glass from the back window.""After the explosion, we all crouched down in the bus. Anyone who could lay down on the floor," he continued. "We didn't know if more would come."Dortmund team members after the bus explosionNo threat inside the stadiumDortmund police confirmed there was no danger for the fans inside Signal Iduna Park. Stadium spokesman Norbert Dickel informed fans of the match cancellation, saying that "there is no reason for panic here at the stadium."The club urged the fans to remain calm and "keep the peace" so they could facilitate an "orderly departure" from the stadium.While still in the stadium, Monaco fans chanted "Dortmund! Dortmund!" in support of their Champions League rival. The German club commended the support on their social media account and helped to direct&nbsp;the Monaco fans toward overnight accommodation.dv/jm (AP, AFP, Reuters)