Venezuela threatened late on Tuesday to withdraw from the Organization of American States (OAS) if the regional body holds a special meeting scheduled for Wednesday&nbsp;to discuss an ongoing political crisis that has claimed 26 lives in protests in recent weeks.Venezuela's leftist government and the 34-member OAS have been arguing for months over an economic and political crisis that has prompted the regional body's head to call for the country's suspension for breaking the constitutional order.Venezuelan Foreign Minister Delcy Rodriguez said on state television that President Nicolas Maduro had instructed her to trigger the country's exit if a foreign ministers' meeting was held without approval from Caracas.OAS meeting discusses VenezuelaThe warning came ahead of a scheduled Wednesday meeting of the OAS in Washington to debate a proposal by 16 nations to hold a foreign ministers meeting to discuss the "situation" in Venezuela.No member has ever withdrawn from the OAS since it was founded in 1948, but in the past Cuba and Honduras had been suspended before having their membership reinstated.A two-thirds' vote is needed to suspend a country from the OAS. Oil-rich Venezuela can rely on the support of left-wing allies Bolivia and Peru, as well as several poor Central American and Caribbean states that have received subsidized crude oil.At the same time, the United States is applying pressure on member states and&nbsp;leftist governments in Argentina, Brazil and Peru have lost power in recent months.Read: Five things to understand about oil-rich, cash-poor Venezuela&nbsp;Street protestsHundreds of thousands of Venezuelans have taken to the streets over the past month to protest a collapsing&nbsp;economy and Supreme Court moves to strip the opposition-controlled National Assembly of power.&nbsp;&nbsp; The protests are the largest demonstrations against Maduro since 2014.The Supreme Court decision to take over legislative powers from the Assembly was partially reversed after it came under pressure, but the opposition was galvanized by the move. Protesters have repeatedly clashed with security forces, which have used tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse them.The government accuses the opposition of stirring up violence, while the opposition blames armed pro-government militias for several killings.Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands have taken to the streets in the weeks since to call for new elections. They show no signs of stopping.As of March, Venezuela's inflation rate surpassed 220 percent, according to the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics. The country's largest bill - the 100 bolivar note - was worth just $0.04 at the end of last year. Shopping trips now require stacks, or even bags, of cash to buy the bare necessities.An estimated 80 percent of food items and other basics were in short supply by last year. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally can enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement.In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen otherwise only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever.Electricity blackouts and fuel shortages have also driven Venezuelans to desperation. Despite Venezuela's possession of the world's largest oil reserves, drivers face long lines at the gas pump. A 50-percent collapse in oil prices in 2014 devastated the oil-dependent economy. In 2013, revenues were $80 billion. That figure dropped to $20 billion by 2016, according to IMF figures.Lower poverty rates, better education and health, and economic growth: These are all part of the legacy of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Equally part of the socialist's legacy was mismanagement. Not only did he fail to keep the state oil company up to date under increased government control, but his government also overspent despite a drop in oil production after 2006.Chavez's hand-picked successor, Nicolas Maduro, has been in office for four years and has two more to go. The opposition center-right coalition, which has controlled the National Assembly since 2015, has accused him of "abandoning his post" by failing to stem the economic devastation. It has also denounced him for rights abuses.The most recent example of Maduro's rights abuses was to silence opposition leader, Henrique Capriles, pictured above. In early April, Capriles was banned from seeking public office for 15 years due to "administrative irregularities" in his role as a governor. Capriles had been at the forefront of demands for a referendum on Maduro. The ban further inflamed tensions with protesters.Aside from protests, the opposition collected 2 million signatures for a referendum last year, roughly 10 times the number required. And in a move against the Supreme Court - and in lieu of impeachment hearings - it also held a symbolic trial for Maduro. Numerous attempts to stymie its attempts to pressure the government have only emboldened these lawmakers.Last September saw some 1 million Venezuelans march on Caracas. The opposition hopes April 19 protests - "the mother of all protests" to coincide with Maduro's fourth annivesary - will be even bigger. Meanwhile, the international community looks on with concern. The Organization for American States is mulling a suspension for Venezuela unless it calls elections to emerge from "dictatorship." Author: Kathleen Schuster Pro-government rallies have also been held. A large one is scheduled for May Day, raising the prospect of further clashes with the opposition.Ongoing oppositionOpposition protests show no signs of abating. Another demonstration is planned for Wednesday in which anti-Maduro protesters will again try to march on the office of the chief ombudsman, a state-funded agency&nbsp;responsible for investigating complaints against any public authority. They are demanding ombudsman Tarek William Saab stand up for citizens' rights and take action to remove Supreme Court magistrates.Highlighting the scale of the crisis, Venezuela's chief prosecutor Luisa Ortega Diaz said Tuesday that more than 400 people have&nbsp;been injured and nearly 1,300 detained over the last month. Another 26 people have been killed.&nbsp; She said many of those arrested would be released as the police had no evidence against them.For more than a year, the opposition has been demanding new elections before the scheduled presidential vote in October 2018. Their attempts&nbsp;have&nbsp;been blocked by courts and an election body accused of supporting Maduro. Critically, Maduro still maintains the support of the military.&nbsp;&nbsp;cw/jm&nbsp;(AFP, AP, Reuters)&nbsp;