The former President of the European Commission Jacques Delors famously told Britain's Trade Union Congress in 1988 that social rights, social protection and social progress would lay at the heart of his vision of the European Union.Over the next two decades, however, Delors' social dream appeared to make way for the free market zeitgeist that defined the 1990s and early 2000s, followed by years of crippling austerity measures.The runoff election in France pits diametrical visions for Europe against each other: Liberal-socialist Emmanuel Macron and populist-conservative Marine Le Pen. For Brussels, the outcome can mean any number of things. (25.04.2017) Protective "social pillars" for the EU's 508 million residents to deflate populist jibes have been unveiled by the EU's executive. Measures include work or training rights for young jobless and EU-wide paternity leave. (26.04.2017) In an address to the Bundestag, German Chancellor Angela Merkel talked tough ahead of Saturday's EU-27 summit on Brexit. The UK, she said, would not be as well positioned as EU member states. (27.04.2017) Which brings us to today. This week, the European Commission unveiled plans to push its social policy agenda once again in a bid to reconnect with disheartened citizens and coax voters not to place their faith in the populist fringes of the political spectrum.The European Pillar of Social Rights, presented on Wednesday by Employment Commissioner Marianne Thyssen, put forward 20 social principals it wants to see member states adopt. The most prominent&nbsp;include strengthening workers' rights, revamping employment law by bringing the gig economy into national social systems and introducing new rules on parental leave.Thyssen described the Pillar as "a compass for a renewed process of convergence towards better living and working conditions" that would help the EU "avoid a race to the bottom and encourage a race to the top."&nbsp;Well-timed, but overdueInitial reactions from trade groups and workers' unions have been less buoyant but nonetheless hopeful. Gabriele Bischoff, President of the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) Workers' Group told DW: "The proposal has some good points, but is quite disappointing because it doesn't really show real change. Rather than introducing complex new processes, the Commission would have been better off providing a more coherent, future-guided policy with concrete enforceable rights."Read:&nbsp;EU Commission unveils 'pillar' of social rights protection to fight populistsMeanwhile, Luca Visentini, General Secretary of the European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC) told DW in a statement that the Commission's Pillar of Social Rights proposal was "a step in the right direction" and "includes proposals which are long overdue."Though overdue, the timing is by no means coincidental, coming just after the first round of a French election that saw eursceptic candidates from the far-right and far-left leverage social rights to garner more than 40 percent of the total vote. Populist movements in Germany and Italy, who will both hold their own elections within the next year,&nbsp;have taken note.&nbsp;"With unemployment so high, the risk of social exclusion and poverty have never been so high," Luca Jahier, who leads the EESC's Various Interests Group,&nbsp;told DW. "That's why it's crucial that Europe starts investing in its democratic society. That is what these social pillars are about."Roadblocks aheadThat's not to say that the proposal will quickly translate into legislature. Currently, the initiative takes two forms - that put forward by the Commission and another for proclamation by the European Parliament and Council, the institutions representing EU member states. Their vote, however, is only expected by the end of the year, after consultations with industry representatives, workers' group and trade unions.Plenty of potential roadblock remain before then. "We have a battle ahead of us to achieve a strong and ambitious Pillar of Social Rights," Visentini said. "Some Governments and some employers are opposed." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2c21COpposition namely comes from the EU's two problem children, Poland and Hungary, who feel that the proposal would undermine their economic competitiveness over higher wage countries, or cause a serious dent in their public coffers.Read:&nbsp;Merkel warns against British 'illusions' as Brexit negotiations beginHowever, Bischoff maintains that those reservations are namely the result of short-termism and questions over funding. She said she the proposal would have won more support and raised the scope for positive social change had the&nbsp;Commission outlined plans for more social investment, focused on tackling poverty and supporting transitions for new kinds of jobs.After all, the very success of Europe's social plan hinges on its longevity.It was unveiled between the first and second rounds of the French election, and it will likely be proclaimed again ahead of Germany's national vote in September and Italy's early next year.But Brussels&nbsp;cannot seek to regain the trust in citizens simply when the timing suits. The Social Pillars are a key part of what has effectively become Brussels' own constant, long-term campaign.The leader of the Alternative for Germany, Frauke Petry, said police could use guns as a last resort to prevent illegal border crossings, pointing out "that's the law." What began as a euroskeptic party has turned into an anti-establishment and anti-EU force, claiming up to 25 percent of votes in German state elections in March 2016 and taking second place in Chancellor Angela Merkel's home state.Many believe Brexit and Donald Trump's victory in the US presidential elections could give new impetus to France's National Front. Established in 1972 and now led by Marine Le Pen, who took over from her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, in 2011, the National Front is a nationalist party that uses populist rhetoric to promote its anti-immigration and anti-EU positions.The leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom, Geert Wilders, is one of Europe's most prominent right-wing politicians. He was convicted in December for asking a crowd in 2014 if they wanted more or fewer Moroccans in the country, but no penalty was imposed. His party is considered anti-EU and anti-Islam. It is leading polls ahead of next year's parliamentary elections and currently holds 15 seats.Nikos Michaloliakos is the head of Greece's neo-fascist party Golden Dawn. He was arrested in September 2013 along with dozens of other party members and charged with forming a criminal organization. Michaloliakos was released in July 2015. Golden Dawn won 18 seats in parliamentary elections in September 2016. The party holds anti-immigrant views and favors a defense agreement with Russia.Hungary's anti-immigration, populist and economic protectionist party Jobbik aspires to be in the government by 2018. Now Hungary's third-largest party, it won 20 percent of votes in the last elections held in 2014. It wants a referendum on EU membership. Jobbik also advocates criminalizing "sexual deviancy," submitting a bill targeting homosexuals in 2012. Jobbik is headed by Gabor Vona.After Trump's election, Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Akesson said in an interview with Swedish TV: "There is a movement in both Europe and the United States where the establishment is being challenged. It is clearly happening here as well." The Sweden Democrats call for restricting immigration, are against allowing Turkey to join the EU and want a referendum on EU membership. Norbert Hofer of Austria's nationalist Freedom Party lost the recent presidential runoff by a mere 30,000 votes, after being front-runner in the first round. Former Green party leader Alexander Van der Bellen won 50.3 percent of the vote, with Hofer gaining 49.7 percent. The Freedom Party's leader campaigns for the strengthening of the country's borders and limiting benefits for immigrants.The leader of the hard-right People's Party - Our Slovakia, Marian Kotleba, has said, "Even one immigrant is one too many." On another occasion, he called NATO a "criminal organization." This Slovak party favors leaving the EU as well as the eurozone. It won 8 percent of the vote in March 2016 elections, securing 14 seats in the country's 150-member parliament.