In an extensive "New Yorker" profile published in October last year, Frauke Petry compared herself to Angela Merkel - both women are from East Germany and both are scientists with a PhD. The co-chair and most-recognizable face of the right-wing populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party is fascinated by the German chancellor's rise to power. Now, Petry herself has created another parallel. She has voluntarily withdrawn from the race to become leader of Germany, just as Merkel did in 2002 when she stepped back and let Edmund Stoiber take the role. Petry has decided not to run as the AfD's leading candidate in Germany's parliamentary elections on September 24. The 41-year-old announced her decision in a Facebook video on Wednesday.Like Merkel before she became chancellor, this step back takes place against a backdrop of tactical considerations. Today's loser can be tomorrow's winner. In 2002, Stoiber lost the election, but Merkel won later in 2005.Tactical withdrawalPetry herself is taking a step back to prepare for a stronger offensive at another point in time. Of course this move also results from the realization that she is lacking the support she needs to advance. However, from a strategic point of view, she can still hold the reins of party power yet avoid an embarrassing election result in the public eye.&nbsp;Kay-Alexander Scholz is DW's Berlin correspondentThe AfD has been plagued by internal strife among its leadership, driving media speculation over its chancellor candidate. Examining the situation rationally, whoever takes that job will really only have it for a few months. Following the election this fall, the AfD is likely to end up in the opposition in parliament. Of course, there is a chance that the chancellor candidate will go on to head the party in Bundestag and thus have the power to shape politics over the years. But as the AfD's party leader, Frauke Petry already holds the political "pole position," especially since co-leader J rg Meuthen does not want to run in the election. In her video announcement on Wednesday, Petry did not say that she would decline the role of parliamentary party leader.Will Petry's strategy work?Her withdrawal is only a partial one anyway. In her video announcement, she argued for the necessity of her "proposal for the future," outlined earlier this month amid criticism from fellow AfD leaders, that the party should agree on a binding strategy for the election this fall. Now she is trying to show that she is acting for the good of the party and putting aside her personal ambitions, such as the chancellor candidacy.More than ever before, she is not committing to realpolitik. On the contrary, she has asked her party to decide whether or not it should remain a "fundamentally" opposition faction. The upcoming party congress will decide - the main thing is that it makes a decision. Only when the AfD presents a unified front can a range of opinions exist on the inside, said Petry. This is probably her way of mending ties with controversial Thuringian AfD leader Bj rn Hocke (whom she would like to see banned from the party for alleged Nazi sympathies, but that is another story entirely).But Petry does not shy away from addressing the potential disadvantages of the AfD being an opposition party that takes a hard-line stance on the right-wing of Germany's political spectrum, saying: Fundamental opposition in parliament means a lengthy opposition, verbal spats that will discourage party supporters and ultimately a weakened AfD because other parties could absorb its goals, leading supporters to wrongly believe that the other parties "understand."It is still not certain whether Petry's plan to resolve the AfD's election strategy issue will work. There are many party members who do not even want to put her "proposal for the future" on the agenda. But the party congress will ultimately decide and may even begin a new chapter in the AfD saga.It must not be left unsaid that Petry is expecting a child in early summer - her fifth. Many have already asked themselves how she can balance motherhood, a newborn and an election campaign, but this was probably not a critical factor in her decision.Have an opinion to share? Let us hear it by leaving a comment below. The thread will remain open for 24 hours after publication