The news that the U.S. women s national team have agreed&nbsp;a new long-term labor deal with the country s federation has put the topic of progress and equality in women s football back into the spotlight.Since their World Cup victory in 2015, the country's players have been&nbsp;fighting for equal pay. On Wednesday, the U.S. Soccer Federation and the team s union finally reached an agreement that&nbsp;means female players will see a sharp increase in base pay and match bonuses.However, the deal still falls short of guaranteeing pay equal to that received by&nbsp;the U.S. men s national team. This battle is just one of multiple&nbsp;continuous challenges faced by women in football at various levels&nbsp;around the globe.Football as a tool for changeNon-profit organizations such as Berlin-based 'Discover Football'&nbsp;use the sport as a tool to empower women and work against discrimination. Together with the German Ministry of Interior, the group&nbsp;have organized the Women s Football in&nbsp;East and South East Asia Conference in the German capital this week. The event&nbsp;has seen&nbsp;players, coaches and activists discuss how women s football can be used to fight for women s rights in the area.Vice President of the Papua New Guinea Football Association, Linda Wonuhali made the long journey from Port Moresby to speak at the event&nbsp;. She was the driving&nbsp;force behind the 2016 FIFA U-20 Women s World Cup, the first significant international football tournament&nbsp;to take place in the country. The World Cup has changed the mindset and perception of women in our country, she said&nbsp;Linda Wonuhali, Papau New Guinea Football Association Papua New Guinea is often ranked as one of&nbsp;the worst places in the world for violence against women. This was one of FIFA s main concerns when it came to the country hosting the event. Members of the FIFA Council preferred Sweden as a host nation and voted against Papua New Guinea butformer FIFA President Sepp Blatter overturned the decision. Despite what we now know about Blatter, he believed in his slogan of football for the world and the world for football , so he gave us a chance and we are forever grateful for that, the momentum of the World Cup still lives on, said Wonuhali.The event was categorized as a success for&nbsp;the country, even if the Papua New Guinea under-20 team lost all of its group matches and only scored once against North Korea. Frustratingly for those within FIFA concerned with human rights,&nbsp;the North Koreans&nbsp;ended up winning the tournament. They won the U-17 in Jordan back in September and they came and won the U-20 and you try and figure out what s going on, it challenges the rest of the world, said Wonuhali.North Korea has stepped up its efforts to&nbsp;produce&nbsp;high-quality players in its only football academy in Pyongyang. Unlike other Asian countries, North Korea has&nbsp;invested extensively&nbsp;in both its men s and women s national teams. The country has also recognized the sport as a valuable tool to empower women but the regime translates sporting success into propaganda.'Little in common with the men'The lack of financial support for&nbsp;woman s football remains a worldwide problem,&nbsp;even in countries such as Brazil where many see football as religion.&nbsp; The only thing we had in common with the men s team was our shirt logo, we had to wear the men s jerseys from eight years prior, said Caitlin Fisher, a former football player with Santos F.C. in the South American country.Women player's of Santos F.C.Fisher is an American who moved to Brazil in 2004 to play professionally, as the women s league in her country had folded. Fisher and her teammates could not use the training facilities or the club buses and often had to walk to practice. Thirteen years later, players&nbsp;from the Republic of Ireland's women's team have found&nbsp;themselves in a similar situation in 2017.&nbsp;The discrepancy between men s and women s team continues to be immense. What s going on? We re playing for Santos. This is Pele s club, the biggest team and yet we have no resources, zero investment, no media coverage, no visibility, said Fisher.Quest for equalityAfter retiring from football, Fisher started working&nbsp;as a consultant for FIFPro, the worldwide player s union, in order to fight for the rights of women in football.FIFPro aims to protect the rights of football players all over the world but while the organization exists since 1965, FIFPro first established its Women s Football Committee at the end of 2014.Although the game of women s football has made huge strides in recent years, equality is a pressing issue that Fisher strives to tackle in a daily basis with FIFPro. It s early days with women s football at FIFPro but solidarity, building a collective voice and protecting the rights of the players is our ultimate goal, said Fisher.