Despite a 97 percent scientific consenus on the issue, some still dispute the idea that human activity is causing climate change. With this year's Earth Day focusing on climate and environmental literacy, DW examines some of the most common myths and misconceptions used by climate change skeptics.1. If global warming is real, then why are we still experiencing record-cold winters? Isn't the planet supposed to be getting hotter? It is true that we have observed colder temperatures in some areas. The winter of 2009 to 2010 in particular was unusually cold in Europe, and overall sea ice around Antarctica has even increased somewhat.But it would be wrong to use this as evidence against global warming. Many different factors influence the Earth's climate, alongside human activity.The El Ni o phenomenon is the main culprit of these bizarre weather patterns. Every four years or so during the winter season in the Northern Hemisphere, warmer-than-usual sea surface temperatures appear along the South American west coast, which affects trade winds around the world and can feed into large winter storms in areas like Europe.Although sea ice in Antarctica seems immune for now, ice cover in the Arctic Circle has reduced dramatically in recent yearsAlthough ice cover in the Antarctic has increased in recent years, the exact opposite is occurring in the Arctic Circle, where there is currently less ice than any winter in recorded history. The Antarctic is lucky in the sense that it is surrounded by strong winds and ocean currents, which protects it from outside climate influences to some extent.But the reality is that an increase in average temperatures on Earth has been observed since systemic measurements begin back in 1880.The year 2016 was the warmest on record, with 2015 and 2014 taking second and third place, respectively. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the average global temperature has increased 0.85 degrees Celsius (about 1.5 degrees Fahrenheit) from 1880 to 2012. So although there will always be outlying cold weather events, there is really no disputing&nbsp;that the temperature&nbsp;is in fact increasing around the world.2. The Earth has heated and cooled throughout its history - climate change is a natural phenomenon. Humans have had nothing to do with it in the past, this current warming is just a natural fluctuation.Yes, the Earth's climate has changed many times over the course of millions of years as part of natural environmental processes.&nbsp;But the scary thing is that this particular warming phase, over the last 50 to 150 years, has occurred much faster than any other time in history.Climate change skeptics often argue that CO2 emissions from human activity alone could not influence the Earth's climate to such an extent. They point to the fact that CO2 emissions also come from other sources such as volcanoes,&nbsp;and that high levels are naturally controlled by plants and the permafrost cycle.The problem is that our greenhouse gas emissions disrupt the existing balance, whereby the planet is unable to absorb and release the CO2 as it normally would. This problem is made even worse due to increased deforestation.An increase in carbon emissions caused by burning fossil fuels has caused an imbalance in the Earth's atmosphereThe IPCC considerers it "highly probable" that human influence has been the primary cause of global warming since the mid-20th century. Since 1750, the concentration of CO2 has increased by 40 percent, and methane by 150 percent.Although skeptics also often try and highlight the 3 percent of scientists who are not certain that human activity is driving climate change, these researchers are frequently from conservative think tanks such as the Cato Institute, which is funded by companies such as Volkswagen and other groups that rely on the continued use of fossil fuels.3. We can't even accurately predict tomorrow's weather forecast. How can we be sure of what our climate will look like 100 years from now?&nbsp; It's a common enough scenario: you check the weather forecast and are excited to see sunshine predicted for the weekend. But instead, you are disappointed by grey skies and rain.Predicting the weather is very different from predicting climate changeIt's important to know that the weather forecast and climate models are essentially two different things. The weather is short-term, often unpredictable, and is influenced by a variety of factors.The climate, on the other hand, is long-term, and unpredictable weather events get balanced statistically. It is much easier to observe an increase in global temperatures over several decades, as opposed to predicting changes in weather on an hour-by-hour basis.According to the IPCC, the reliability of climate forecasts has improved significantly in recent years, so we can be confident in their predictions - and hopefully act accordingly.&nbsp;4. So what if the temperature increases by a couple degrees? The Earth is resilient, it will pull through like it has&nbsp;before. At face value, in increase of 2 or 3 degrees doesn't seem like much at all. But on a global level, even a minor change in temperature can have extreme consequences.Just a few degrees increase in global temperature could lead to more extreme weather events such as drought This translates into an increase in extreme weather events such as droughts and storms - even wildfire. Sea levels are rising due to melting glaciers, and many highly populated areas increasingly&nbsp;find themselves underwater.And if we don't start implementing ambitious climate protection goals soon, the IPCC says the average global temperature could rise by 5.4 degrees by&nbsp;the end of the 21st century.The Earth's climate is unpredictable by nature, and its inhabitants have had to adapt themselves many times in the past. But natural adaptation has its limits - and we are running out of time to mitigate the more severe consequences of manmade climate change.In September 2015, 10,500 firefighters were called to tackle forest fires in California. They were unable to prevent 1,400 homes from destruction. The blaze was fueled by hot and dry weather - as a result of climate change.The polar bear has become a symbol of climate change, as its habitat is threatened by global warming. The Arctic predator hunts from ice sheets that are fast disappearing. As the ice retreats, they are unable to stalk their prey, and risk starvation. By 2050, scientists warn that the Arctic could be ice-free in summer.Just visible from the air is a little wood hut on the island of Spitzbergen in Norway. It is home to the Arctic research base where French and German scientists are studying climatic and atmospheric changes in the polar region, including the damage done to permafrost and glacier systems.A goat watches a mountain expedition on the Swiss Aletsch Glacier, a UNESCO World Heritage site. It was around a kilometer longer in 1860 than it is today. Due to global warming, the glacier is shrinking by up to 50 meters per year. With the rate of retreat increasing, scientists fear Europe's biggest glacier could disappear altogether. the landscape looks peaceful, bathed in a mystical light. But the actual situation is far more unsettling. This aerial view shows Central Luzon in the Philippines, completely flooded after it was hit by a typhoon and heavy rain. People were drowned or buried under landslides, and half a million were forced to flee their homes. The country is hit by 20 typhoons each year. escape is all that's left. The World Bank warns that if global warming continues unimpeded, another 100 million people will be under threat. Poor people in parts of Africa and South Asia are at particular risk. Drought and flooding threaten crops - leading to hunger, disease and high food prices.Climate change often hits children the hardest, through no fault of their own. Studies have found that economic problems exacerbated by drought can have profound social impacts, such as in an increase in child marriages, for example. Families may marry off their underage daughters earlier to have fewer mouths they have to feed.Elephants produce huge quantities of manure. At Munich's Hellabrunn Zoo in Germany, one local utility is turning their waste into electric power. Around 2,000 tons of biowaste provides enough power for a hundred homes. Could this be a model for an African school? In any case, climate change is forcing new ways of thinking in the search for green energy.The Rhine River is Europe's busiest waterway for shipping - but climate change is affecting business. Ongoing drought means shipping firms would be forced to use shorter vessels that can navigate shallower waters. If ships aren't able to set off, more goods have to be transported by road - which is more expensive.Healthy coral reefs are like a blooming garden. But global warming is bleaching the life out of them. Corals have a symbiotic relationship with algae, which are vital to their health. But as the water heats up, they expel the algae. If warmer water temperatures persist, a lack of nutrients calcifies the corals, which makes their color fade and causes the organisms to die.Global warming also has its benefits. In recent years, wine is being produced on Germany's northernmost island, Sylt. Ever more vineyards are being established at higher altitudes and further north - even Scandinavia now has some. Global warming also means earlier harvests and sweeter grapes. Author: Karin J ger / rr, ng