Dutch anti-Islam lawmaker Geert Wilders on Thursday announced that his right-wing political party suspended public events after police arrested a law enforcement agent for leaking sensitive information to a criminal organization."Very disturbing news. The Freedom Party is suspending all public activities until all facts in connection with the investigation are known," Wilders said in a tweet.Weeks ahead of a general election, Wilders' party has witnessed growing support across the country, according to polls.His Freedom Party is expected to capture up to 28 seats in the 150-seat lower house in a neck-and-neck race with Prime Minister Mark Rutte's Liberals. Any Dutch government, however, is liable to be comprised of a coalition of centrist parties - as Wilders is likely to fall well short of a majority and is unlikely to find willing partners elsewhere in parliament.The right-wing lawmaker has courted controversy in the past, with a court finding him guilty of inciting hatred, although Wilders managed to avoid any penalties from the conviction. He has denied culpability and vowed to appeal the ruling.The Netherlands' far-right populist party is currently leading in the polls ahead of a general election. While it s unlikely to be part of the next government, many people fear its ideas will be implemented. Thessa Lageman reports from The Hague. Under the auspices of the Freedom Party, the 53-year-old politician has promised to ban Muslim migrants, close mosques and criminalize the sale of Qurans, Islam's holy book.Safety 'not in question'However, authorities said the right-wing politician's safety had not been compromised by the security breach."What we know up to now is that Wilders' safety was not in question," said Dutch police chief Akkerboom."This man didn't belong to the so-called 'inner circle,' but he did have important information and we don't want to have any risks," he added. The police chief also confirmed the suspect agent had Moroccan roots.Security has risen as a topical subject in the run-up to key elections across the EU after terrorist attacks on European soil in the past two years, including in Berlin, Paris and Brussels.The leader of the Alternative for Germany, Frauke Petry, said police could use guns as a last resort to prevent illegal border crossings, pointing out "that's the law." What began as a euroskeptic party has turned into an anti-establishment and anti-EU force, claiming up to 25 percent of votes in German state elections in March 2016 and taking second place in Chancellor Angela Merkel's home state.Many believe Brexit and Donald Trump's victory in the US presidential elections could give new impetus to France's National Front. Established in 1972 and now led by Marine Le Pen, who took over from her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, in 2011, the National Front is a nationalist party that uses populist rhetoric to promote its anti-immigration and anti-EU positions.The leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom, Geert Wilders, is one of Europe's most prominent right-wing politicians. He was convicted in December for asking a crowd in 2014 if they wanted more or fewer Moroccans in the country, but no penalty was imposed. His party is considered anti-EU and anti-Islam. It is leading polls ahead of next year's parliamentary elections and currently holds 15 seats.Nikos Michaloliakos is the head of Greece's neo-fascist party Golden Dawn. He was arrested in September 2013 along with dozens of other party members and charged with forming a criminal organization. Michaloliakos was released in July 2015. Golden Dawn won 18 seats in parliamentary elections in September 2016. The party holds anti-immigrant views and favors a defense agreement with Russia.Hungary's anti-immigration, populist and economic protectionist party Jobbik aspires to be in the government by 2018. Now Hungary's third-largest party, it won 20 percent of votes in the last elections held in 2014. It wants a referendum on EU membership. Jobbik also advocates criminalizing "sexual deviancy," submitting a bill targeting homosexuals in 2012. Jobbik is headed by Gabor Vona.After Trump's election, Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Akesson said in an interview with Swedish TV: "There is a movement in both Europe and the United States where the establishment is being challenged. It is clearly happening here as well." The Sweden Democrats call for restricting immigration, are against allowing Turkey to join the EU and want a referendum on EU membership. Norbert Hofer of Austria's nationalist Freedom Party lost the recent presidential runoff by a mere 30,000 votes, after being front-runner in the first round. Former Green party leader Alexander Van der Bellen won 50.3 percent of the vote, with Hofer gaining 49.7 percent. The Freedom Party's leader campaigns for the strengthening of the country's borders and limiting benefits for immigrants.The leader of the hard-right People's Party - Our Slovakia, Marian Kotleba, has said, "Even one immigrant is one too many." On another occasion, he called NATO a "criminal organization." This Slovak party favors leaving the EU as well as the eurozone. It won 8 percent of the vote in March 2016 elections, securing 14 seats in the country's 150-member parliament.ls/msh (AFP, Reuters)