When the French National Olympic Bid Committee announced on Friday that "Made for Sharing" would be the official slogan of the country's bid for the 2024 Games, they were not intending to insult the French language but to broaden their campaign and reach the largest possible audience.Yet, the committee has now been accused of breaking French law.Why? Because the slogan is in English.Language preservation organizations in France, a nation that prides itself on the purity and defense of its language like perhaps no other, decried the committee's decision to forgo using the French language and instead employ "that of Donald Trump!"Bernard Pivot, president of the French literary organization Academie Goncourt and well-known defender of French culture, called the slogan "a mistake, an absurdity.""Paris, the capital of the francophone world is bowing to the language not only of Shakespeare but also that of Donald Trump!" he said.The highest authoritative body on the French language, the Academie Francaise, also decried the slogan as over-used and low-brow and likened it to a pizza advertisement.The Academie Francaise slammed the sloganAu tribunal! The French nation actively guards its linguistic heritage, and a collective of language activists have already begun making plans to legally block the slogan. Their lawyer, Emmanuel Ludot, lodged a formal request with the government's rights defense authority to stop the slogan from being used.Ludot also claimed the English catchphrase contravenes a 1994 law protecting the French language and plans to file a motion in a Paris court on Monday.The collective wants to see a slogan in either both English and French or solely in French, with some proposing "Venez partager" ("Come and share!") as an alternative."We want them [the bid committee] to communicate in the language that is ours," Ludot said.Paris Olympic bid committee flabbergastedThe Paris Bid Committee responded to the uproar with dismay, saying it was "astonished by certain reactions.""We are extremely committed to the promotion of our country, of its values, of the French language," Etienne Thobois, Paris 2024 bid director, said in a statement.Thobois underlined that the decision to employ an English-language slogan was made with the global composition of the International Olympic Committee (IOC)&nbsp;in mind. The group will vote September 13 in the Peruvian capital, Lima, on whether Paris, Budapest or Los Angeles will host the 2024 Summer Games.&nbsp;"In order to win, you have to bear in mind that the IOC members who will vote in Lima won't be French," Thobois said.&nbsp;"That's why, like all the organizations who speak to an international audience, we made the choice to express ourselves in French and in English. This enables us to directly share our project as much as possible."Earlier in the month, the now-official but perhaps short-lived English slogan and the French equivalent were projected onto the Eiffel tower.But "Made for Sharing" may yet prove not so easy to share after all.&nbsp;"That's unique!," the slogan for Hamburg's bid to host the Games as it attempts to persuade its residents. On November 29, the city will survey its citizens to see whether they really want to be part of the 2024 Olympic Games.Hamburg wants to strike a chord with not just its citizens, but the IOC with the short distances between each venue. And with sustainability: 22 already existing venues will be used, nine created temporarily and five newly-built, including the Olympic Stadium in the harbour area.The Paris motto is simple: "I want the Games." 2024 would be the ideal time: 100 years ago, the French capital hosted the first-ever Olympic Games. The Stade de France could act as a potential Olympic Stadium then.Paris has presented its Generation 2024. The last three attempts have failed in 1992, 2008 and 2012. Many expect the city to succed in its fourth try. The backing is huge: about three quarters of Paris and the French population support the bid. The sailing, incidentally, would be held in Marseille."We have a great story over the last 3000 years," said Rome mayor Ignazio Marino. "And we tick all of the boxes." 'The Eternal City' was already a candidate for the 2020 Games, but dropped out due to funding problems. In 2004, Rome lost out to Athens in the bidding process.Rome already has an Olympic Stadium from 1960. Serie A clubs Lazio and Roma play their home matches here. Some contests would potentially be relocated to Florence, Naples and Sardinia. "Rome is central to the project," says Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi.Los Angeles wants to join up with London to become host for the third time. The famous American city hosted the Games in 1932 and 1984. Last time, Edwin Moses (left) said the Olympic oath and then won gold in the 400 meters hurdles. Harald Schmid (second from left) won bronze.The Californian city was actually the second choice for the United States. Boston led the race for some time, but its residents voted against the bid. In L.A., there is support. "We have the Olympic gene," says Mayor Eric Garcetti.Budapest is applying to host for the first time. The city has hosted the European Championships in athletics twice - and it's also considered to be a hotbed for boxing. A native of Budapest, Laszlo Papp, became the first boxer to win gold in three consecutive Olympic Games."We want to break the monopoly of the Games by wealthy countries," says Zsolt Borkai, head of the National Olympic Committee of Hungary. This is in line with Thomas Bach's vision for the future. Author: Stefan Nestler/rd cmb/sms (Reuters, AP, AFP)