The town of Lotte is only around 100 kilometers away from Dortmund, but in footballing terms the two are worlds apart. Third division Sportfreunde Lotte are the lowest-ranking side left in the German Cup at the quarterfinals stage. Borussia Dortmund are riding high in the Bundesliga, still in the Champions League and have reached the last three German Cup finals.However, Dortmund ended up on the losing side each time and are taking nothing for granted in their quest to finally go one better this season."Lotte are as strong as a second division side," said Dortmund coach Thomas Tuchel. "I expect an adventurous opponent with nothing to lose."Dortmund's Bundesliga form has picked up recentlyDortmund go into the game on the back of two successive 3-0 victories in the Bundesliga. The most recent of those, in Freiburg at the weekend, saw Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang score twice to end his 471-minute goal drought. The Gabon striker is joint top-scorer in the Bundesliga with 19 goals and Dortmund need him back firing on all cylinders ahead of a few crucial weeks in the cup, league and Champions League."Strikers are happiest when they score and the team wins," said Tuchel. "Auba is no different."The German Cup has been anything but an easy ride for Borussia Dortmund so far. They needed a penalty shootout to see off Union Berlin and Hertha Berlin in the second round and last-16 respectively.Third-division Lotte have made a habit of beating bigger sides so far this seasonLotte, on the other hand, have enjoyed a barnstorming path to the quarterfinals. Ismail Atalan's team claimed the scalps of Bundesliga sides Werder Bremen and Bayer Leverkusen as well as second division 1860 Munich in the last round.&nbsp; And the Lotte coach is unfazed at the prospect of facing three-time German cup winners Dortmund."The unity and belief we've created in the dressing room is not something you find every day," said Atalan. "We have this mentality that we can beat anyone."Uncomfortable surroundingsThe 10,000-capacity Frimo Stadium is a far cry from the plush surroundings Dortmund are used to at their 80,000 plus Signal Iduna Park.Lotte's two previous home games were called off as the pitch was deemed unplayable. Coming from a world of undersoil heating and pitches resembling carpets, Dortmund may not fancy the prospect of a cup battle on a soggy lower-league field. Tuchel admitted the pitch was a problem, but said his players had to "ignore the conditions.""After the 3-0 victory in Freiburg, we will travel to Lotte full of confidence," said defender Erik Durm. "We need to get through to the next round, but it is going to be very, very difficult." Goalkeeper Roman B rki echoed those sentiments, adding that Lotte will be buoyed by "great euphoria in the stadium."Another potential banana-skin?Tuesday's early kick-off sees Eintracht Frankfurt take on Arminia Bielefeld in another tie that could produce an upset.Frankfurt coach Niko Kovac has overseen an incredible turnaround in fortunes at a club that only avoided relegation in the play-off last season. The Eagles had been soaring high in the Bundesliga this season, occupying a Champions League spot for several weeks until recently.Eintracht Frankfurt's poor recent form including a home defeat to struggling IngolstadtBut three straight defeats, including a 2-0 reverse at Hertha Berlin, one of their main rivals for European qualification, have seen them slip down the standings.Opponents Arminia Bielefeld are struggling against the drop in the second division, but earned a confidence-boosting draw at Hannover at the weekend. And Bielefeld have gained a reputation as giantkillers in recent years. The season before last, Arminia ditched Borussia M nchengladbach at this stage to reach the semifinals.With ingredients like that, cup magic could just be in the air this Tuesday.Polish striker Robert Lewandowski scores the first of his three goals against Hamburg. Bayern would go on to score eight, the biggest win in the Bundesliga this season. The last time a team scored eight goals in the Bundesliga was in 2015 when Bayern also beat Hamburg 8-0. The champions remain five points clear at the top.Timo Werner was on the scoresheet as Leipzig continued their remarkable season with a convincing 3-1 win over Cologne. Werner scored the third, a fine finish from a tight angle, and now has 13 Bundesliga goals this season. Leipzig still trail Bayern by five points but are closing in on securing a Champions League place.Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang ended his run of five games without a goal with a brace at Freiburg. Thomas Tuchel's side prevailed 3-0 at the Schwarzwalder Stadion with a convincing victory that keeps them well in the hunt for a top four finish. Freiburg were below par and remain in ninth place.Hertha Berlin showed their character with a hard-fought 2-0 win over 10-man Eintracht Frankfurt at the Olympiastadion. The result, secured with goals from captain Vedad Ibisevic and Vladimir Darida, sent them level on points with Hoffenheim. The victory sends Hertha fifth, just a point behind fourth-placed Hoffenheim.Bayer Leverkusen suffered a second defeat in a week after a pathetic performance against Mainz. The visitors were ruthless in front of goal and scored two goals in the opening 11 minutes, leaving Leverkusen with a mountain to climb. Schmidt's side lacked Mainz's cutting edge in attack and, after defeat by Atletico Madrid on Tuesday, must quickly bounce back.Serge Gnabry's first half brace gave Werder Bremen an invaluable three points against fellow strugglers Wolfsburg. Nine of Gnabry's 10 Bundesliga goal have come away from home and he continues to show how important he is to Bremen. As for Wolfsburg, turmoil isn't far away with coach Valerien Ismael under pressure.Darmstadt took the lead soon after the break and looked to be on course for another big home win. Torsten Frings' side led at the beginning of the second half when Marcel Heller tucked home. But Augsburg had other ideas, and Raul Bobadilla grabbed the winner late on to leave the Lillen still at the bottom of the league.What a week it has been for Lars Stindl. On Thursday, he scored a hattrick as Gladbach beat Fiorentina 4-2. A few days later, though, he was at the centre of controversy. The goal which fired Gladbach to a 2-0 win over Ingolstadt was clearly a handball. Stindl has now scored seven in his last 10.Alessandro Sch pf can't stop scoring. His strike for Schalke was his third in as many games for The Royal Blues, who drew 1-1 with Hoffenheim. Julian Nagelsmann's side responded late in the game through Sebastian Rudy, whose header secured a point for Hoffenheim.