The number of people killed on German roads has fallen to its lowest level since the founding of the federal republic more than 60 years ago.According to data released on Friday by Germany's Federal Statistics Office (Destatis), 3,214 people were killed in car accidents in 2016. That's 245 fewer recorded deaths than the year before, a fall of 7.1 percent.However, the figures&nbsp;do not&nbsp;suggest that Germany's roads&nbsp;are safer as 2016 saw the most accidents nationwide&nbsp;with some 2.6 million incidents recorded,&nbsp;almost 3 percent higher than the year before and the highest since German reunification.Some 308,200 of those accidents resulted in deaths or injuries, while the overall number of traffic injuries in 2016 jumped by 0.8 percent to 396,700.When it comes to getting stuck in traffic on the way to and from work, Los Angeles leads the world. Drivers in car-crazy California spend 104 hours per year in congestion during peak travel periods. That's more than two weeks spent in a car That topped second place Moscow at 91 hours. One of the main reasons for traffic jams in the Russian capital is the fact that roads make up a relatively small proportion of the total space of the city.New Yorkers spend 89 hours in their cars. Five of the top ten cities on Inrix's list of the most congested areas in the world are in the US, making it the most congested developed country on the planet.The morning commute on the Golden Gate Bridge can cost time and money in equal measure. Being stuck in traffic costs the average US driver about $1,400 (1,318 euros) and nearly $300 billion (28 billion euros) for all drivers nationwide.Vehicle congestion in Sao Paulo, which made it to place six with drivers spending 77 hours stuck in traffic. While road supply will stagnate, the demand to use it is expected to continue to rise.The UK was found to be the third-worst affected country in Europe for traffic congestion. According to analysts, online shopping is one reason for the rising levels, with delivery vans clogging the roads.Due to the fact that Inrix doesn't gather its own data in either China or Japan, cities in those countries were not ranked. Nevertheless, traffic in the region's rapidly-expanding cities has worsened. Africa also isn't covered by the report because Inrix doesn't collect its own data there. For example, Lagos, the largest city in Nigeria, is heavily affected by traffic. One of the reasons for the terrible traffic situation is the city's financial hub, which sits on an island with only limited access. If an accident occurs on these roads, the entire city gets backed up. Author: Nadine Berghausen There was also cause for alarm in the number of accidents involving two-wheel vehicles, namely bicycles and scooters, the number of deaths rising by 8.5 percent and 4.3 percent respectively.However, motorcycle-related deaths sank by 15.7 percent.Driving dangerously in the eastDestatis' figures broke down the number of traffic-related&nbsp;deaths by federal state, with Bavaria, Berlin, Hamburg, Saarland and Schleswig-Holstein all seeing a rise in the number of deaths, while Brandenburg and Baden-W rttemberg saw a major drop.&nbsp;The statistics also reveal which states saw the highest number of deaths proportional&nbsp;to the total population. Based on those measures, the eastern German states of Saxony-Anhalt and Mecklenburg-Western Pommerania saw the highest proportion of road deaths, with 59 and 55 deaths per million citizens respectively.&nbsp;The safest state, by contrast, was North Rhine-Westphalia, which saw 29 deaths per million citizens, well below the national average of 39 deaths per million citizens.Long-term drop in road deathsDestatis has been recording road accidents since as long ago as 1952 for both the western federal republic and the former eastern German Democratic Republic.By the mid-50s, the number of annual road deaths stood at around 14,000, before spiking in 1970 at 21,000. Since then, the number of road deaths has sunken dramatically, thanks in no small part to changes in the law that have since made it compulsory for drivers to wear seatbelts and motorcyclists to wear helmets, while also lowering the legal per mille limit limit for blood-alcohol content when driving.Carmakers,&nbsp;meanwhile, will correctly point out that the technical safety specifications in vehicles have also dramatically improved since.dm/jm&nbsp;(dpa, Destatis) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1Ipdt