SPD candidate Martin Schulz has proposed a roll-back of the signature labor reforms introduced by the last SPD chancellor, Gerhard Schr der. The move "opens the window wider" for a center-left coalition, some say. (20.02.2017) Martin Schulz has turned the SPD s fortunes around. He s done the same for the Greens too, but not for the better. While Angela Merkel s challenger is reviving tired Social Democrats the Greens are slipping in the polls. (24.02.2017) DW takes a look at the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party - the newest force in German politics. What is it, where did it come from and what role will it play in the 2017 election? Here are all the answers. (20.01.2017) The Free Democratic Party was once part of every conservative German government - then it dropped out of the Bundestag. Now it wants to return to its former business-friendly glory in time for September's election. (06.01.2017) Backing for Germany's center-left Social Democratic Party (SPD) dipped slightly for the first time since it chose&nbsp;former European Parliament President Martin Schulz&nbsp;as its candidate to run for the chancellorship, the "Bild am Sonntag" newspaper reported on Sunday.The weekly "Sonntagstrend" survey conducted by the Emnid polling institute showed that the SPD fell one point down to 32 percent.Despite the drop, the poll showed that the SPD was still neck and neck with the conservative bloc&nbsp;comprised of the Christian Democrats (CDU) and the Christian Social Union (CSU).Support for the CDU/CSU bloc remained constant compared to the previous week at 32 percent.Ratings for the&nbsp;populist, anti-migrant Alternative for Germany (AfD) party remained unchanged at 9 percent. Likewise, support for the Left party and the Greens stayed constant at 8 percent and 7 percent, respectively.Only the business-friendly Free Democratic Party (FDP) improved, moving up one point to 7 percent.'Schulz effect' in decline?Despite the SPD's recent wave of support in the wake of Schulz's nomination, a majority of people surveyed do not believe that the SPD politician will oust current German Chancellor Angela Merkel in the general elections in the fall.According to the poll, 50 percent doubt that he will make it to the chancellery while 36 percent firmly believe he will not.In a possible sign that the "Schulz effect" may be losing steam, 57 percent found Schulz's campaign promise to support "hard-working people" to be "untrustworthy," while 36 percent said that they trusted his statement.German federal elections are scheduled for September 24 this year. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2XwGf