Iraqi troops have successfully taken the whole of Mosul airport back from so-called "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists, the army said on Friday. Their forces have also moved into the first neighborhood in the west of the city since IS overran Mosul in June 2014.Lieutenant General Sami al-Aridhi told the press that special forces had also taken over an army base that is considered key to the success of&nbsp;the offensive to recapture western Mosul and free the 750,000 citizens estimated to be trapped there."We have attacked and fully control Ghazlani base, we have also taken Tal al-Rayyan... and we're attacking Al-Maamun neighborhood," he said.IS on the run Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2Y9DfThe multipronged assault on the strategic targets began earlier this week, backed by US airstrikes and coalition soldiers. After making significant advances in the eastern half of the city in recent weeks, the Iraqi military look&nbsp;poised to push the terrorists from their last stronghold in Iraq. If victorious, this would likely signal&nbsp;the beginning of the end for the so-called "caliphate" which the militants proclaimed in 2014 after taking over large parts of Iraq and Syria.Fighting in the older western half of Mosul is especially difficult, however, as its narrower streets make it nearly impossible to use armored vehicles and terrorists have been using small drones and suicide attacks to stop the Counter Terrorism Services (CTS) from advancing."There is a resistance there. The drones are particularly annoying today," said al-Aridhi.Under IS occupation, Iraq's second city has been subjected to a number of war crimes such as forced sex trafficking, ethnic cleansing of Christians, and the destruction of ancient heritage sites such as the tomb of the Old Testament prophet Jonah.Iraqi troops and their allies gained control of the portion of Mosul on the eastern side of the Tigris River in January. Now they aim to free western Mosul, where around 2,000 jihadis are said to have entrenched themselves.Iraqi army soldiers took over Mosul's airport, providing them a gateway to the western part of the city. Holding the position will be crucial to Iraqi efforts to retake the rest of the Mosul.The army is not only advancing against IS with rockets, mortars and howitzers, they are also deploying drones, jets and helicopters to the frontlines. US soldiers are also participating in the battle. A few thousands IS fighters are fighting against some 10,000 Iraqi troops. But, skilled in guerrilla tactics, the militants familiar with what's left of the city. Iraqi troops above inspect an IS tunnel used by fighters who have been ready to conduct suicide attacks against government soldiers.The situation has grown increasingly dramatic for the citizens of western Mosul. Around 750,000 people are still trapped there. They lack the most basic necessities as water, food and fuel are scarce commodities.This boy had to be evacuated from his village near Mosul. He is on his way to a relatively safe camp in the southern part of the city. UN aid organizations expect around 250,000 more people to flee the city.es/se (AP, AFP)