The Oslo-based low-cost carrier announced Thursday that was opening new flight crew bases at Rhode Island's T.F. Green Airport and Stewart International Airport in Newburgh, New York, to offer a total of 10 new routes between the United States and Europe.One-way flights would start at $65 (61.4 euros) for the first 10,000 seats during an introductory phase, with fares on the next pricing tier starting at $99. By comparison, prices for a one-way ticket from New York to Dublin in mid-June with other airlines range from about $655 to $2,755 on the Expedia travel website.Europe's largest airline groups have launched a new alliance in a bid to become stronger in the face of more competition from Gulf rivals. Among other things, the association wants to fight rising airport charges. (20.01.2016) Europe's main budget airlines, Ryanair, Air Berlin and easyJet continue to be locked into cut-throat competition. They have reported mixed results for the first quarter, but low fuel costs gave a boost across the board. (12.05.2015) The time for bargain hunters and frequent fliers in Germany has never been better. There are more cheap flight connections and offers than ever before. (27.05.2015) The move is part of Norwegian Air Shuttle's drive to expand its transatlantic services after receiving approval late last year for its Irish subsidiary to operate the routes."I pay for what I want, you pay for what you want. We don't pay for what everybody else on the plane wants," Norwegian Air spokesman Anders Lindstr m said of its fares.Fierce competition across the AtlanticNorwegian said it would fly from smaller US airports with lower fees to keep costs low, and use narrow-body Boeing 737-MAX Aircraft due to be delivered later this year.The announcement follows a healthy increase in revenue for the airline last year - rising 16 percent to 26 billion Norwegian crowns ($3.12 billion, 2.95 billion euros), and enabling the carrier to place orders for 260 aircraft from Boeing and Airbus.Meanwhile, growing low-cost competition on transatlantic flights has shaken up more established rivals. British Airways' owner IAG is planning to start low-cost transatlantic flights from Barcelona this year.IAG chief executive Willie Walsh said this month that the Norwegian carrier's model had pushed the airline to look at new ways to operate.Franco-Dutch group Air France-KLM is also pursuing plans for a new low-cost unit, in a project dubbed Boost, while German carrier Lufthansa is expanding long-haul budget flying through its Eurowings business. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1F0KPuhe/nz (Reuters, AP)&nbsp;