The National Front (FN) party leader was on a three-day visit to Lebanon to bolster her credentials as&nbsp;a presidential candidate when she&nbsp;walked out of a meeting with one of the country's foremost religious leaders before it started.France's far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen has held talks in Beirut with Lebanon's President Michel Aoun. Back in France, a new poll has shown that the populist has narrowed the gap in the presidential race. (20.02.2017) The Lebanese knew that Michel Aoun would be their president even before the election. A political deal made it possible. The deal solved one problem, but it created another. (01.11.2016) The French National Front goes into this election year in a buoyant mood, hoping to attract mainstream voters who will heave Marine Le Pen into office. Elizabeth Bryant reports from Paris. (11.01.2017) Marine Le Pen has launched her bid for the French presidency with a fiery speech in Lyon. The far-right leader echoed many of the populist sentiments expressed by supporters of US President Donald Trump and Brexit. (05.02.2017) Shortly after arriving at Grand Mufti Sheikh Abdel-Latif Derian's office, an aide tried to give Marine Le Pen a headscarf to put on, which she immediately refused to wear. According to the Associated Press, she was thereupon told that customs were different in Lebanon, prompting Le Pen to walk back to her car and leave."You can pass on my respects to the Grand Mufti, but I will not cover myself up," Le Pen told reporters. She reportedly added that she had met in the past with the grand mufti of Egypt's Al Azhar, one of the world's top Sunni clerics, without having to wear a veil.The press office for the grand mufti meanwhile said that Le Pen's aides had been informed beforehand of their requirement for her to wear a head covering for the meeting. The statement further remarked that "(t)he mufti's office regrets this inappropriate behavior in such meetings."During her visit to Lebanon, France's far-right presidential candidate is also scheduled to meet with Lebanese right-wing Christian party leader Samir Geagea and with the Maronite Christian patriarch.Le Pen's refusal to wear the head covering is far from unique: Many other female politicians from around the globe including Angela Merkel, Ursula von der Leyen,&nbsp;Hillary Clinton and former US First Ladies Laura Bush and Michelle Obama all refused to wear veils on diplomatic visits to Saudi Arabia, where every female who lives there is required to have her head and body&nbsp;covered in public.A group of female Swedish officials&nbsp;came under criticism last week for wearing headscarves during a&nbsp;visit to Iran.Macron quit as economy minister in August and launched his independent presidential bid in November. The 39-year-old centrist formed his own political movement, En Marche (Forward), and is seen as a reformer. He's never held elected office, but a December poll named him France's most popular politician. He's voiced admiration for German Chancellor Angela Merkel's refugee policy.The National Front leader has adopted a more moderate tone than her anti-Semitic father, party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen. But she still takes a hard line on immigration, saying children of irregular migrants should not have access to public education. She also wants France to withdraw from the eurozone and have a referendum on EU membership. It's predicted she'll advance to the second round. A surprise winner of the right-wing Republicans primaries, the socially conservative Fillon is seen to represent the interests of France's Catholic middle class. An admirer of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, he supports a liberal economic policy. Until Penelopegate struck, he was widely projected as the winner of a run-off against Le Pen. In a runoff against former French PM Manuel Valls in the Socialist primary, Hamon was the more left-wing choice of the two politicians. The 49-year-old supports a universal basic income and wants to reduce the traditional work week to 35 hours. He has also spoken in support of legalizing cannabis and increased investment in renewable energy. Author: Samantha Early ss/se&nbsp;(AFP, AP, Reuters)