Prosecutors have opened an investigation and are looking for possible witnesses, police spokesman Michael Klump said."We're all in shock," Alexandra Wind, spokeswoman for the Luisenpark animal park, told German news service DPA. "We had hoped until the end ... now it has unfortunately come to a sad ending."Police said veterinarians are now in the process of examining the 5-kilogram, 60-centimeter&nbsp;tall animal's body, which was identified by the number 53 on its wing."The time of death and potential actions of a third party are being investigated," spokeswoman Wind said.January 20 is Penguin Awareness Day - which is not the same as World Penguin Day on April 25. Adelie penguins and all their relatives are so great that someone decided to give them not one but two annual holidays. So in honor of this special day, DW is raising awareness of the adorable, flightless birds.They can't fly and they're not great at walking either. Despite their fancy tuxedoes, penguins often look slighty clutzy on land. That all changes as soon as they hit the seas. Their streamlined bodies allow them to shoot through water like a torpedo. Even the tallest and heaviest species, the emperor penguins, can swim as quickly as 2.7 (8.9 feet) meters per second.It seems like an odd combination at first: sand, sun - and penguins? But the birds don't just live in Antarctica. These guys are African penguins. A whole colony of them can be found at Simon's Town in South Africa. Sunny Australia is home to the little penguins. The smallest penguin species grows to be only 30 centimeters (12 inches) tall. Emperor penguins get to be 1.3 meters (4.3 feet).Here you see an honorary Colonel-in-Chief inspecting his troops. King penguin Brigadier Sir Nils Olav III. lives at Edinburgh Zoo in Scotland. He was knighted in 2008. In 1913, Norway presented the zoo with its first king penguin and in 1972, the King's Guard adopted one: Nils Olav I. He and his two successors at the Edinburgh Zoo have since risen through the ranks from mascot to Colonel-in-Chief.After oil spills penguins are often cleaned by volunteers. But the gentle hands can't scrub all the oil from the birds' sticky feathers. That's why they put little wool sweaters on the penguins so they don't swallow oil trying to clean their feathers themselves. The oil also destroys the birds' isolating fat layer and the sweaters protect them from the cold.The cute birds are also successful movie stars. Movies like "The Penguins of Madagascar" and "Happy Feet" were successful animated flicks that featured penguins as protagonists. "March of the Penguins" was a documentary about emperor penguins and the struggles they go through for their chicks. It won the Oscar for Best Documentary Feature.The film shows emperor penguins during breeding season. The birds walk for weeks from the sea to their breeding spots in the middle of Antarctica's ice dessert. There the male keeps the egg on his feet. The female goes back to sea to eat. The males huddle together to keep warm in the freezing winds. When the chick hatches after 60 days of growing, the father has lost one third of his body weight.The Bremerhaven Zoo in northern Germany wanted to breed the endangered Humboldt penguins in captivity. But because it's hard to determine the birds' gender, no one at the zoo realized for a long time that most of the animals they had were males. The penguins didn't mind and formed "gay" couples. In the absence of egg-laying females, the homosexual couples tried to hatch stones. Author: Carla Bleiker Police launched a search for the South American Humboldt on Sunday.The animal was found Thursday near a parking lot in Mannheim, with police saying the thief had probably dropped the penguin near the parking lot, but it wasn't clear if the bird was already dead at the time and Klump didn't give details."All of us are shocked about the death," zoo director Joachim Koeltzsch said."It looks as though the perpetrator got rid of the animal there. It is not clear whether the penguin was still alive at the time," police in the city of Mannheim said in a statement.Animal rights organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) has offered a 1,000-euro (1,070-dollar) reward for any information on the killer."We hope this brutal act can be cleared up and the animal abuser found guilty," said Peter Hoeffken of PETA's German office in Stuttgart.Humboldt penguins are an endangered species in the wild. They live mainly on the Pacific coast of Peru and northern Chile and their nearest relatives are African penguins.jbh/kl (dpa, AP)