Bangladesh's multibillion dollar garment industry is facing renewed international pressure to increase the minimum wages of textile workers after labor protests in December last year.Following the labor action, authorities filed cases against a number of textile workers and trade union leaders, triggering fears of a police crackdown and widespread condemnation.Major global brands have also intervened, requesting the government review wages, thus raising the stakes for an industry that is critical for the nation's economy. &nbsp;The South Asian country has the world's second-largest garment industry, which supplies many Western retailers and earns more than $25 billion a year from exports. The sector has about 2,500 factories that employ more than 4 million workers, mostly women.Garment factories in Bangladesh, however, have garnered a negative spotlight from time to time due to the harsh conditions their workers are subjected to.And at the end of last year, from December 11 to December 19, textile workers from around 20 factories stopped working and blocked roads during labor protests in Ashulia, an industrial zone near Dhaka, Bangladesh's capital. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1JpMBThe protesters demanded a monthly minimum wage increase from 5,300 takas ($67) to 15,000 takas ($187). But factory owners rejected the demand and temporarily closed many factories, and police began making arrests. More than 1,600 workers have been fired, and police have filed cases against some 600 workers and trade union leaders.An unrealistic demand?Local journalist Nazmul Huda reckons the textile workers' demand for the pay raise from $67 to $187 is unrealistic. They have never been able to achieve such a huge pay increase in the past. The government set the minimum wage at the current level in 2013 after discussing the issue with labor rights organizations and factory owners associations.&nbsp;Huda was arrested during the protests on account of his extensive coverage of the event. His exclusive video report of police's crackdown on protesters sparked international criticism. He has been accused of inciting the unrest and remained behind bars for 52 days until his release on bail two weeks ago."It is true that the textile workers need a wage rise as living costs have increased in recent years. But the government should negotiate a reasonable increase,'' he told DW.Kalpona Akter, executive director of the Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity, admitted that the protesters hadn't contacted labor rights organizations before making the demand for the wage raise in December last year.Bangladesh says it now meets conditions put forward by the US for better safety and workers' rights in its factories. Trade restrictions were put in place two years ago after two disasters killed some 1,200 workers. (02.11.2015) The throw-away price for a pair of jeans may soon be a thing of the past. Thanks to a proposed fair-trade label, German consumers will soon be buying "ethical clothing" from Bangladesh. DW's Sanjiv Burman reports. (08.10.2015) Bangladesh is the second largest textile producer in the world. Three and a half million people here sew jeans, t-shirts and dresses for a pittance - often for up to fourteen hours a day. (22.07.2016) "They have legitimate rights to demand a pay raise. And they shouldn't be punished for making the demand," she told DW, while also appealing to the government to negotiate the increase taking into account present living costs in the country.Support from big brandsAbout 20 global textile brands, including H&amp;M, Inditex, Gap, C&amp;A, Next and Primark, wrote a letter to Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina last month supporting a wage review and expressing their concerns that union leaders and worker advocates were unfairly targeted.But the government hasn't officially responded to the letter, and the industry leaders don't see any reason to comply with the demand.Mohammad Siddiqur Rahman, president of the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA), said that the factory owners had been following the wage structure announced by the government three years ago. "Workers get at least five percent pay rise every year. Apart from that, bonuses are given to employees based on their performance,'' he told DW. Rahman blamed a minority of workers for creating the recent unrest. "More than 4 million people are involved in the industry, most of them love this sector as we all earn bread and butter from this, but only a few always attempt to destabilize such a vital sector in various ways. Their common tactic is to create violence and disrupt production," Rahman noted.The factory owners bemoan that global brands are not ready to pay higher wages and bargain hard, putting enormous pressure on the manufacturers to keep costs lower. While the local industry is second only to China's in size, it's encountering strong competition from textile firms in India and Vietnam.Stressing the challenging circumstances they face, Rahman urged global brands to help local factory owners pay more to workers by increasing the price of the garment products they buy from them.&nbsp;&nbsp;Ensuring workers' rightsMore than 41 textile workers and labor leaders were arrested in cases related to the protests in Ashulia, according to Akter. Their immediate release has been demanded by the rights group Human Rights Watch (HRW), which even urged the global brands and donors attending the Dhaka Apparel Summit on February 25 to use the event to call on the government to stop all persecution of union leaders and defend workers' freedom of association.Bangladesh is the second-largest clothing exporter in the world, after China. Since the garment factory collapse of 2013, Bangladesh has been receiving unprecedented attention. Several inititatives were set up to help the country's factories improve working conditions and safety for garment workers.One of Bangladesh's major textile companies, the DBL group, joined the 'textiles partnership' and has implemented several measures. German Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development Gerd Mueller praised their efforts, saying he hoped that this would set a precedent for other companies.Some 150 inspectors have received training to monitor the working conditions and environment in the country's factories. Equipped with motorcycles, the inspectors are alert and ready in case of an emegency.Most of the predominantly female textile workers are not aware of their employment rights. Special 'women's cafes' have been established where they can receive training, for instance, in how to negotiate with their employers. To raise the level of awareness they make use of the game of Ludo.Gerd Mueller gets an insight into the working conditions of textile factory workers in Bangladesh. Many women frequently work up to 14 hours a day in harsh conditions. Germany's Textile Partnership initiative aims to improve the circumstances which dictate their working lives.Gerd Mueller, along with Bangladesh's Commerce Minister Tofail Ahmed, visited the factories of the DBL Group in Gazipur. The state is a key agent in the Textile Partnership.As part of the workers' welfare initiatives, factories are being encouraged to set up day-care centers to take care of the children while their mothers are busy working to meet company targets.Both the German and Bangladeshi governments, as well as manufacturers, buyers and all other stakeholders in the supply chain are adapting to the changes. Although the situation has improved substantially since the Rana Plaza disaster, much more work needs to be done.By 2021, the Bangladeshi government plans to export $50 billion worth of garments. Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina discussed the ambitious plan with German minister Gerd Mueller during his visit. Author: Sanjiv Burman, Bangladesh The summit is viewed as a major event to refurbish the industry's image, which has been severely dented by major industrial accidents over the past few years, including the Rana Plaza disaster in 2013 that killed at least 1,136 workers.Kalpona Akter confirmed that most of the workers and leaders who were arrested during and after the protests had been granted bail in a surprisingly fast pace. She regards it as a politically motivated move to fulfill the demand for their release put forth by global brands. Rahman also acknowledged that the release of the workers and the leaders had been made in response to the request.Nevertheless, international brands are yet to be impressed by the move before the summit. The global union federation IndustriALL said on February 22 that leading garment brands - including H&amp;M, Inditex, C&amp;A and Tchibo - had pulled out of the summit, "citing the current climate of repression against unions as incompatible with activities to promote the industry."Human rights activists see the move as a hint of discontent among big clothing brands with regard to the situation in Bangladesh.According to Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director at Human Rights Watch, two key speakers who were supposed to address the summit are no longer listed in the event program. "This signals global brands' strong displeasure at how the government, BGMEA and some of its members have dealt with recent Ashulia strikes,'' he told DW.Meanwhile, Akter said that releasing workers and leaders on bail is not the only thing she was expecting. "The government must drop all the charges filed against the textile workers and their leaders as well as protect workers' freedom of association. All the employees who were sacked for taking part in the protests should be reappointed as well."