In a rare speech, the militant group's chief Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi has called for fighters to stand their ground in Mosul. DW spoke to Hassan Hassan, co-author of "ISIS: The Army of Terror," to examine the implications on the fight to liberate the city from the militant group. Iraqi forces on Monday seized Mosul's southernmost bridge, marking a strategic victory in Baghdad's campaign to liberate the city.The damaged bridge links eastern Mosul, which Iraqi forces captured earlier this year, with the western part of the city, where thousands of so-called "Islamic State" (IS) militants are believed to be entrenched.Iraqi Brigadier General Yahya Rasool told the AFP news agency that government-led forces have taken control of both sides of the bridge."The Rapid Response force and the federal police have liberated Jawsaq neighborhood and now control the western end of the fourth bridge," Rasool said.In October, the Iraqi military, backed by Kurdish peshmerga forces, Shiite militias and a US-led coalition against the "Islamic State," launched a major offensive to reclaim the country's third-largest city.The IS rose to notoriety in 2014, when it seized large swathes of land across Iraq and Syria, culminating in the capture of Mosul.The city is a strategic stronghold for the militant group, where its leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi declared a so-called "caliphate" from a historic mosque.As Iraqi forces continue to move towards Mosul's center, they have witnessed an increase in fighting from militants."The more we advance, the fiercer the resistance," said Lieutenant Colonel Abdel Amir al-Mohammedawi of the Rapid Response units fighting near the recaptured bridge.Islamic State (IS) - also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh - is an al Qaeda splinter group with militant Sunni Islamist idealogy. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The group's goal is to create an Islamic state, or "caliphate", across Iraq, Syria and beyond.IS is believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world. It controls territory in Iraq and Syria, and its de facto capital is Raqqa, in Syria. However, the group has lost more than a quarter of its territory since January 2015. There are many groups involved in the fight against IS. The United States is leading air strikes by an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia has conducted air strikes in support of the Syrian government. Regional forces, such as the Kurdish Peshmerga (pictured above), are fighting on the ground.One of the group's main sources of income has been oil and gas - it still controls an estimated one third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led air strikes are deliberately targeting this valuable asset. Other means of income include taxes, ransoms and selling looted antiquities.IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The most deadly to date was a suicide bombing this year in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, in which more than 200 people died and many more were injured. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS can carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group.The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artefacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing", and thousands of women from religious minorites have been enslaved. The group also uses social media as a propaganda and recruitment tool.Around six million Syrians have fled abroad as a result of the ongoing conflict - many to neighboring Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, but also further afield to Europe. More than three million Iraqis have been displaced within the country. Author: Rachel Stewart Looming humanitarian crisisThe fighting has prompted thousands to flee, with aid organizations warning of a humanitarian catastrophe that could displace hundreds of thousands. The United Nations'&nbsp;World Food Program (WFP) said in a statement Monday that civilians are lacking food, water and access to basic healthcare."WFP is monitoring the frontline and remains ready to provide immediate food assistance as soon as families can be reached safely," said Sally Haydock, the country director for the organization's Iraq program."We appeal to all parties to the conflict to facilitate immediate and unimpeded humanitarian access to all Iraqis in need of assistance," Haydock added.Iraqi troops and their allies gained control of the portion of Mosul on the eastern side of the Tigris River in January. Now they aim to free western Mosul, where around 2,000 jihadis are said to have entrenched themselves.Iraqi army soldiers took over Mosul's airport, providing them a gateway to the western part of the city. Holding the position will be crucial to Iraqi efforts to retake the rest of the Mosul.The army is not only advancing against IS with rockets, mortars and howitzers, they are also deploying drones, jets and helicopters to the frontlines. US soldiers are also participating in the battle. A few thousands IS fighters are fighting against some 10,000 Iraqi troops. But, skilled in guerrilla tactics, the militants familiar with what's left of the city. Iraqi troops above inspect an IS tunnel used by fighters who have been ready to conduct suicide attacks against government soldiers.The situation has grown increasingly dramatic for the citizens of western Mosul. Around 750,000 people are still trapped there. They lack the most basic necessities as water, food and fuel are scarce commodities.This boy had to be evacuated from his village near Mosul. He is on his way to a relatively safe camp in the southern part of the city. UN aid organizations expect around 250,000 more people to flee the city.ls/jm (Reuters, AFP)