Berlin wants to introduce unisex restrooms - but not without controversy. DW's Gero Schliess agrees with the plan - but only after some initial objection and nostalgia about the good-old men's room. The US government has issued a directive telling public schools to allow transgender students to use the bathroom of their choice. Some state leaders have already vowed to forego federal funds rather than comply. (14.05.2016) Texas and ten other states have challenged US President Barack Obama's directive regarding transgender bathroom access. The states are hoping the guidelines will be deemed unlawful. (25.05.2016) A federal judge has blocked a Mississippi law that would let merchants and government employees cite religious beliefs in denying services to same-sex couples. The law had won praise from conservative religious groups. (01.07.2016) US President Donald Trump ended federal protections on Wednesday for transgender students that instructed schools to allow them to use bathrooms and locker rooms matching their gender identities.Former President Barack Obama sent the directive to public schools in May 2016, threatening to withhold federal funding if they forced transgender children to use bathrooms of a certain gender against their will.The Obama directive was based on the determination that Title IX, the federal law prohibiting sexual discrimination in education, also applied to gender identity. Shortly after it was issued a federal judge in Texas put a temporary hold on the guidance when 13 states sued.White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Trump was pressed to act because of the pending US Supreme Court case, G.G. versus Gloucester County School Board, in which a Virginia transgender boy, Gavin Grimm, was fighting against officials who want to deny him use of the boys' room at his high school.&nbsp;Trump's move also withdrew an Education Department letter in support of Grimm's case.With federal guidelines now lifted, states and school districts can decide whether students should have access to bathrooms that do not reflect their biological sex."This is an issue best solved at the state and local level," Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said. "Schools, communities and families can find - and in many cases have found - solutions that protect all students."Spicer said Trump "has made it clear throughout the campaign that he is a firm believer in states' rights and that certain issues like this are not best dealt with at the federal level."In a letter to the nation's schools, the Justice and Education departments said the earlier guidance "has given rise to significant litigation regarding school restrooms and locker rooms."Girls should be forced to share bathroomsConservative activists celebrated the lifting, saying the Obama directives were illegal and violated the rights of other students, especially girls who did not feel safe changing clothes or using toilets next to anatomical males."Our daughters should never be forced to share private, intimate spaces with male classmates, even if those young men are struggling with these issues," said Vicki Wilson, a member of Students and Parents for Privacy. "It violates their right to privacy and harms their dignity."But critics said lifting the Obama directive puts children in harm's way."Reversing this guidance tells trans kids that it's okay&nbsp;with the Trump administration and the Department of Education for them to be abused and harassed at school for being trans," said American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten.Grimm, from the Supreme Court case, told news agency Associated Press: "It's not positive. It has the possibility of hurting transgender students and transgender people. We're going to keep fighting like we have been and keep fighting for the right thing."Activists protested the move Wednesday outside the White House.aw/rc (AP, AFP, Reuters)