The election candidates are the independent Emmanual Macron, Francois Fillon of the conservative&nbsp;Les Republicains, Benoit Hamon of the Socialist Party, Marine Le Pen of the far-right Front National and Jean-Luc Melenchon, who is supported by the Communist party.&nbsp;The first round of voting takes place on April 23 with the top two candidates then facing off in a decisive second round on May 7.Current polls suggest that Marine Le Pen will become only the second Front National candidate after her father in 2002 to reach the run-off. But who she&nbsp;would face is still up in the air in a race that has been hit by scandal.Read: Opinion polls tighten ahead of French presidential election Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2XHalFrancois FillonThe main conservative candidate began the campaign as clear favorite on a ticket of business-friendly reforms. But after he faced accusations of paying his wife hundreds of thousands of euros for a job she never did, his ratings plummetedRead: 'Fillongate' threatens to take down French presidential favoriteFor a candidate promising to tackle corruption, the scandal hit hard. Fillon is under investigation and faces a real fight to save his candidacy after polls revealed a majority of voters want him to withdraw.Read:&nbsp;Francois Fillon battles to save French presidential candidacyMany expected Francois Fillon to be a shoo-in for the presidency. The former French prime minister easily won the conservative primary with 67 percent of the vote. But then Penelopegate hit. Weekly newspaper Canard Enchaine reported that Fillon's wife Penelope and two of his children had received close to one million euros in salaries from Fillon, paid by the state. Fillon's popularity tumbled.It is not illegal in France to hire family members as parliamentary assistants - provided they have real jobs. Fillon's wife was paid 830,000 euros ($900,000) as a parliamentary assistant for 15 years, working (or - as some have suggested - "working") for Fillon and his replacement in parliament. Police are currently investigating whether Penelope provided services for the salary she received. Reporters also revealed that Fillon paid his two oldest children 84,000 euros for working as assistants between 2005 and 2007. Fillon argued that he had hired Marie and Charles Fillon for their legal expertise - though the two were still in law school when they had jobs with their father.Penelope was also employed at an art magazine from May 2012 to December 2013, where she was paid roughly 5,000 euros a month. The owner of the magazine had previously been recommended for France's highest honor, the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor, by then-prime minister Francois Fillon. Fillon has said that these two facts were unrelated. Fillon has repeatedly denied charges that he used "fake jobs" to enrich his family. He has said that he employed his wife and children because he trusted them and accused the media of running a smear campaign against him. Nevertheless, Penelopegate has severely damaged the campaign of the 63-year old, who has sold himself to French voters as an honest family man keen on cutting public spending. The accusations against Fillon are hardly the first of their kind in France. Ex-President Jacques Chirac was found guilty in 2011 of employing party members in "fake jobs" as mayor of Paris. Former president Nicolas Sarkozy is being investigated for illegal campaign financing, and presidential candidate Marine Le Pen is suspected of paying officials in her far-right party with EU funds. Author: Mara Bierbach Emmanual MacronThe former investment banker entered politics under Francois Hollande. First, he served as the president's advisor and then he became minister of economic affairs. In 2016 he resigned as minister and left the Socialist party. He founded the party "En Marche!" and announced his candidacy for the presidency. That is why many representatives of the Socialist Party consider him to be a traitor.Read: Macron the target of Russian 'fake news', party claimsHowever, in light of the left's weakness, the 39-year-old has become a beacon of hope for those who do not want to see the conservative Catholic Fillon or the right-wing Le Pen in the Elysee Palace. And now, even prominent Socialists, such as former presidential candidate Segolene Royal, stand behind him. Macron wants to reform the EU and revive French-German friendship and emphatically praises Chancellor Angela Merkel's refugee policy.Read: Macron targets Marine Le Pen as Fillon edges towards exit&nbsp;Read: Macron tells London expats to return to France after BrexitMarine Le PenMarine Le Pen's policy of un-demonizing the right has made the National Front (FN) socially acceptable in mainstream society. Nonetheless, the party platforms are still at the far right end of the political spectrum.&nbsp;Read:&nbsp;National Front tones down manifesto ahead of presidential electionsLike Fillon however, Le Pen has also been hit by the fake jobs scandal. Police raided Front National offices to determine whether the party misused EU funding to pay staff for fictional jobs.Read:&nbsp;Police search Le Pen's National Front headquarters over EU parliament probeAlthough polls give her little chance of winning the second round&nbsp;of voting, no scenario is off the table after Brexit and Trump. The Fillon scandal could play into her hands and her supporters remain optimistic.Read: On the French election campaign trail in the Le Pen 'laboratory'Read:&nbsp;Is France ready for Marine Le Pen?Read:&nbsp; Le Pen rails against the European Union with German Chancellor Angela Merkel as its biggest mascot. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2SnzJJean-Luc MelenchonOnce a distant fifth in the running for the French presidency, the Communist-backed candidate's trademark quick wit and eloquent anti-capitalist discourse delivered over&nbsp;two televised debates&nbsp;have catapulted him into third in the polls, according to surveys.Read: What's behind Melenchon's surge in the pollsHe hopes to profit from the center-left's disarray, but may split votes with socialist Hamon. Supported by the French Communist party, Melenchon advocates a shorter work week and climate protection.Read: Melenchon buoyed by gaming communityThe sudden surge in popularity has seen the firebrand leftist reportedly&nbsp;overtake conservative Francois Fillon, once considered the frontrunner, and to within touching distance of far-right leader Marine Le Pen and centrist Emmanuel Macron.Read: Picknicking with France's left-wing presidential candidate MelenchonJean-Luc Melenchon has seen his popularity surge recentlyBenoit HamonThe Socialist candidate&nbsp;surprised everyone by beating Manuel Valls to gain his party's candidacy. The former minister of education is considered to be a sharp critic of President Hollande and stands for the leftward shift of French Socialists.Read: French Socialists choose Hamon as presidential candidate amid high turnoutHamon&nbsp;wants to raise the minimum wage, abolish the liberalization of labor laws, legalize cannabis use and create 37,000 teaching jobs. Political commentators in France consider Hamon's stance to be utopian. Polls predict that he will garner around 8 percent support in the first round of the presidential elections.Read: After Hollande, the end of the Socialist Party of France?Read: Opinion: French Socialists do not want power Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2Wbq0