The legislation has provided authorities with the ability to hold convicted terrorists beyond their prison sentences. But opposition lawmakers criticized the new law, saying it undermines the country's civil liberties. Australian prosecutors on Tuesday charged a 42-year-old man for helping the so-called "Islamic State" (IS)group to develop long-range guided missile capabilities.Federal Police Commissioner Andrew Colvin said the Australia-born electrician had contacts "not just in the conflict zones, but also in other parts of the world and relied on them to pass the information."The suspect had advised the militant group on how to design a laser missile-warning device and develop its own missiles, according to police."In terms of the advice he was providing, we will allege it was fairly sophisticated and well-planned," Colvin said.The 42-year-old man had been detained in the small town of Young in Australia's New South Wales region.Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said the arrest followed an 18-month operation, describing it as "another reminder of the enduring threat we face from Islamist terrorism.""This highlights that terrorism, support for terrorist groups and Islamist extremism is not limited to our major cities," Turnbull said "It once again shows that we all need to be very vigilant."The suspect can receive a maximum penalty of life imprisonment if authorities find him guilty of the terror-related offenses.Terror alertIn September 2014, Australia raised its terror-alert level to high amid fears of foreign fighters returning from Syria and Iraq after joining militant groups in the region.Roughly 200 Australians have traveled to the Middle East to join IS and other terrorist groups fighting on the ground, according to authorities.Since the rise of IS in 2014, Western nations have increased counterterrorism measures in a bid to curb attacks and prevent homegrown radicalization.Australian authorities have prevented at least 12 terror attacks since then, according to officials.Islamic State (IS) - also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh - is an al Qaeda splinter group with militant Sunni Islamist idealogy. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The group's goal is to create an Islamic state, or "caliphate", across Iraq, Syria and beyond.IS is believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world. It controls territory in Iraq and Syria, and its de facto capital is Raqqa, in Syria. However, the group has lost more than a quarter of its territory since January 2015. There are many groups involved in the fight against IS. The United States is leading air strikes by an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia has conducted air strikes in support of the Syrian government. Regional forces, such as the Kurdish Peshmerga (pictured above), are fighting on the ground.One of the group's main sources of income has been oil and gas - it still controls an estimated one third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led air strikes are deliberately targeting this valuable asset. Other means of income include taxes, ransoms and selling looted antiquities.IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The most deadly to date was a suicide bombing this year in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, in which more than 200 people died and many more were injured. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS can carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group.The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artefacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing", and thousands of women from religious minorites have been enslaved. The group also uses social media as a propaganda and recruitment tool.Around six million Syrians have fled abroad as a result of the ongoing conflict - many to neighboring Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, but also further afield to Europe. More than three million Iraqis have been displaced within the country. Author: Rachel Stewart ls/kms (AFP, Reuters)