The actor - best known for his role as&nbsp;the giant Mag the Mighty in the television series "Game of Thrones" - died aged 36, British media reported on Monday.Fingleton was crowned as the UK's tallest man by Guinness World Records in 2007."Sadly it has come to our attention that Neil Fingleton, Britain's Tallest man, passed away on Saturday," a statement posted on the Tall Persons Club Facebook page read."Our thoughts and condolences go out to his family," the group said.Fingleton was born in northeast England in 1980. He played college basketball in the US, followed by a short professional career in the US and Europe before turning to acting.He appeared in films including "47 Ronin" and "X-Men: First Class" and in TV shows including "Doctor Who" and the hit fantasy series "Game of Thrones."Friends and fans posted tributes on social media.Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg&nbsp;was a character in the fourth season of the hit HBO series.Thick stone walls and the old town center - Dubrovnik in Croatia is known as one of the most beautiful cities in the Balkans and is now one of the essential film locations for Game of Thrones. This is King's Landing, the seat of kings in Westeros and THE place for intrigue and secrets. Fans who come here can also book tours of other nearby filming locations.Northern Ireland is also essential to Game of Thrones. It is the setting for both North of Westeros and the Iron Island. The new season will feature more locations in Northern Ireland - but for which scenes remains a well-kept secret. One favorite location remains the Dark Hedges (pictured). Possibly the most beautiful avenue of beech trees in the world, it becomes the Road from King's Landing.Iceland's harsh climate has created the setting for the northerly locations in Game of Thrones, particularly the icy realm North of the Wall, where Wildlings and White Walkers roam. The island is made up of wide spaces, snow covered mountains and volcanic landscapes. The UNESCO World Heritage Site Thingvellir National Park (pictured) served as the location for Arya's journey through mid-Westeros.The Game of Thrones film crew is used to extreme weather - from Iceland to the blistering heat of Morocco. Here one location was A t-Ben-Haddou, which became two cities: Pentos, where Daenerys lives before marrying and Yunkai, where she frees the city's slaves. A t-Ben-Haddou has always attracted film makers and was featured in movies like Gladiator, Lawrence of Arabia and The Mummy.Daenerys and Drogo's wedding wasn't filmed in Morocco, but rather on Malta. The Azure Window, a 50-metre high limestone rock arch located on the island of Gozo, became the backdrop. Apart from Game of Thrones, this natural attraction has also found fame in films such as Clash of the Titans and The Count of Monte Cristo.Since the fifth season, Spain has been an important location for Game of Thrones. In Sevilla, the Alc zar de Sevilla (pictured) is transformed into the Water Gardens of Dorne and Osuna's bullring shines as the Arena of Meereen. Both locations are popular tourist attractions in the Andalusian city. The new season's other locations in Spain include Almer a, Pe iscola and Girona.Doune Castle (aka Winterfell) where the pilot episode was shot, is the only film location of Game of Thrones in Scotland. The medieval castle was originally built in the thirteenth century and can be seen in several films such as Monty Python and the Holy Grail. But the search for film locations in Scotland is far from over - the seventh season is already in pre-production planning. Author: Ellisabeth Yorck von Wartenburg/sc/ir aw/kms (AP, AFP)