It's almost like the smartphone revolution never happened. Finnish brand Nokia, once the darling of the mobile phone world, will resurrect the iconic 3310 model, some 17 years after the original was released.Arto Nummela, the head of Finnish start-up HMD, announced the revamped classic phone on Sunday ahead of the opening of the Mobile World Congress, the world's biggest mobile phone show, in Barcelona. The firm will produce the phone as part of a licensing agreement with Nokia."The telephone will allow you to talk for 22 hours, ten times more than the original," Nummela said. It will also bring back the popular "Snake" game.The new 3310 will qualify as a so-called "feature-phone" that only provides limited internet facilities, as opposed to a more sophisticated smartphone.The original 3310 was launched in 2000 and sold nearly 120 million units worldwide, making it one of the best-selling mobile phones of all time.&nbsp;It was phased out in 2005.The revamped model will reportedly retail for 49 euros ($51).This is what the world's first smartphone looked like. The Nokia 9000 Communicator had the features of a PC, complete with office software, Web browsing and fax function. Sales started on August 15, 1996. It cost around 1400 euros - or around half that with a contract.Modern-day smartphones have come a long way. But the fact that they weigh a lot less than earlier models does not mean they can do less. In fact, today's devices have millions of times the computing power of the computers used by Apollo 11 to land on the moon.There are tons of apps to ensure smartphone users never have a dull moment, but some pieces of code can also be extremely useful for authorities. Indonesians are using donated devices to detect illegal logging through software that listens for the sound of chainsaws and then triggers an alert.Researchers from networking group OpenSignal have discovered that the sensors in Android-based smartphones designed to measure battery temperature, light intensity and pressure can also be used to come up with really accurate weather reports.Scientists from Bristol, England, have developed a fuel cell that can generate power for smartphones "from a single visit to the toilet." You can get three hours of phone calls from 600 milliliters of urine, with bacteria turning the liquid into electricity. On a somewhat related note, close to 100,000 smartphones are dropped into toilets annually by Britons alone.Celine Aarons from South Florida made headlines a couple of years ago when she received the biggest ever smartphone bill. She had to pay $201,000 (180,000 euros) after a message texting marathon while on holiday in Canada. Ever heard of roaming charges?There are now about 1.9 billion smartphone users globally, and that number is still rising steadily. Worldwide 349 million units were sold in the first quarter of this year alone, marking a 3.9 percent increase over 2015. The hottest-selling phone was Samsung's Galaxy S7, with Apple's iPhone 6s and 6s Plus coming in a close second. Author: Hardy Graupner Riding the nostalgia waveWhile 3310 may be limited in&nbsp;features, it comes with plenty of nostalgia value.&nbsp;HMD Global's homage to the sturdy blue phone is part of its mission to relaunch the Nokia brand and draw consumers in towards HMD's other new phone models.In addition to the revamped 3310, HMD on Sunday also presented three new smartphones, the Nokia 3, Nokia 5 and Nokia 6. All three models will run Google's Android operating system and reportedly retail between 139 and 229 euros."HMD launched three new smartphones and an iconic mobile." Thomas Husson, a mobile analyst at Forrester, said. "It is a way to create a halo effect around the other models by reviving talk about the Nokia brand.""This (the new 3310) is a new take, a bit fun and entertaining," Nummela told the broadcaster, BBC. The new smartphones, he said, were&nbsp;"making a clear statement: we are driving the next chapter of Nokia."Nokia&nbsp;once reigned supreme as the world's top mobile phone maker but found itself unable to respond to the rapid rise of smartphones, which saw it&nbsp;overtaken by rivals such as Samsung and Apple's iPhone.The Finnish company sold its entire handset business to Microsoft in 2014 before the Nokia brand name ultimately disappeared from the mobile phone market. However, last year HMD purchased Microsoft Mobile's handset business and with it the right to use the Nokia brand name.Nokia continues to exist as a leading telecoms equipment maker. Under its agreement with HMD, it will receive royalty payments for every mobile phone or tablet sold with its brand name.dm/jr&nbsp;(AFP, dpa)