Many refugees who arrive in Germany have never seen snow in their life. A trip to the Bavarian Alps is therefore an unprecedented experience. But it's not only the snow that is new. Bavaria's alpine tradition and way of life are also very specific to the region.The German Alpine Association (DAV) and the charity aid organization Malteser Hilfsdienst are now organizing tours to the Bavarian Alps to introduce refugees to a unique part of German culture.The "Alpen.Leben.Menschen"&nbsp;project took off in mid-January, when the DAV youth hiking group "Climb ren"&nbsp;was joined by a group of refugees from Syria and Eritrea.&nbsp;They went on a camping trip in Tennengebirge, a mountain range in Austria's Eastern Alps."The refugees are happy to get out of the shared accommodations and to step out of their dull routines," said project coordinator Anna Schober.The project aims to give refugees the chance to make new friends and feel welcome in Germany, while also to raising awareness about nature and environmental protection. Taking care of hiking paths or planting protection forests is traditionally part of the DAV's mission. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2WXbzSeminars are offered to the volunteers that work for the project. Group mentors and managers are prepped for questions about asylum law as well as intercultural communication, environment protection and mountaineering, of course."The project is supposed to make the arrival more easy for refugees who come to the Bavarian Alps," DAV Director Dr. Olaf Tabor said. "At the same time, we want to help them experience the local culture."For now, the project is only taking place in the Bavarian Alps, but DAV and Malteser hope that similar cooperation will follow in other places around Germany.It's the first time in its history that the DAV, Germany's&nbsp;professional organization for mountaineering with some 1.2 million members around the country, is teaming up with the Maltester Hilfsdienst. Malteser is part of a large network of charity organizations involved in refugee aid projects in more than 100 places in Germany, mainly in accommodating and providing meals at reception centers.The integration project is funded by the German Federal Environmental Foundation (DBU) but relies in large part on voluntary help.By November of this year, 115,576 people had applied for an asylum in Germany. The Saxony Internal Affairs Ministry has produced a new guide to help them navigate the jungle of German institutions: a comic-like booklet available in seven languages. Tips are given about all aspects of life, from doctor's visits to school enrollment.Refugees are told, for example, that German officials expect formal address. Giving presents to government officials can lead to misunderstandings, and employees at public institutions are not even allowed to accept gifts, as this image is meant to demonstrate. German refugee group Pro Asyl has criticized the publication as perpetuating negative stereotypes.The comic also explains the rules for shared accommodations where asylum seekers are initially housed. Guests can only come during the day, but are not allowed to stay overnight. New neighbors should introduce themselves to others so they to get to know each other better, the comic recommends. And it advises that quiet times should be observed to preserve the peace so highly valued in Germany.Germans are known for their punctuality. If you have a doctor's appointment and don't keep it without a good reason or prior cancellation, that may be grounds to deny scheduling another, the brochure says. Meeting deadlines is also necessary in order to receive important documents or money, the booklet explains.All children in Germany aged 3 and older have a legal right to a spot in a kindergarten - the immigration authority picks up the costs for the children of asylum seekers. From the age of 6, all children must go to school - the comic clarifies this for those who come from places where that might not be the case. Asylum-seekers also have the opportunity to learn German.Also doctor visits are clarified: Patients must either present a personalized chip-card or an insurance certificate. Therapy is also offered to address psychological problems refugees might have, such as trauma from conflict or war. An interpreter can be provided at some locations if language is a problem. Read the booklet Author: Sabine Oelze / rb