100 km (62 miles) from Garowe is the Dangoroye camp for the internally displaced persons (IDP's). Over 75 families most of them pastoralists live here.Almost 1.4 million children suffering from severe malnutrition could die this year from famine in Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan and Yemen, the UN children's agency has warned. Famine has been declared in South Sudan. (21.02.2017) 2016 saw the EU cutting back funding to the AMISOM mission fighting jihadists in Somalia. Ethiopia has pulled back some 4,000 troops the country considered unnecessary. (30.12.2016) Thousands of Somali refugees who were to resettle in the US have been left in despair following Trump s ban on immigration. The US president has barred nationals of seven Muslim-majority countries, including Somalia. (04.02.2017) They survive on a $100 (95 euros) cash transfer program per month, offered by Save the Children International, a humanitarian organization. These families were displaced after most of them lost all their animals to the current drought. 74-year-old Jama Farah lives at the camp with his wife and a dozen grandchildren.They are left with only a small herd of livestock after over 500 of their goats died. His sons left for the Coastal region over a month ago to look for pasture following the ravaging drought."At this moment what we need most is water and food. If we don't get these two, our lives will be at risk," Farah told DW. Over six million Somali's, about 50 percent of the country's population, have been affected by the current drought."There is no rain, no pasture for our goats. I am 60 years old and have never heard or seen this kind of drought before. People are dying as a result of lack of food and water," Dhahab Abdulla, another resident of the camp told DW.According to the UN Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), the Horn of Africa received only a quarter of the expected rainfall between October and December last year, leaving over 17 million people in crisis and emergency food insecurity levels.A dried up riverbed in Garowe once an oasis of life Children suffering from malnutritionThose mostly affected are the elderly, women and children. They have been left behind as men and boys trek long distances with animals in search of pasture.Malnutrition has become a common phenomenon among children below the age of five. At the Garowe General Hospital Stabilization Center operated by Save the Children International, an eight-month-old girl - Habiba - has been admitted with acute malnutrition.Like many other children undergoing treatment at this health facility, Habiba's situation is dire which has left her parents distraught. are visibly distraught by her condition. They are afraid they might lose her.Nutrition specialist Said Ahamed Yasin quit his Job at a private hospital in Nairobi to work as a volunteer at the Garowe General Hospital in Puntland. "Imagine I had a good job in Nairobi but I left it when I saw what's going on. People are dying from avoidable conditions like dehydration and malnutrition," he said.Puntland Vice President Abdihakim Abdullahi Haji Omar said that although the country has experienced droughts in the past, this year's drought has been so severe and so devastating such that people have reportedly committed suicide.&nbsp;"As you know Somalis are 100 percent Muslim and usually people don't kill themselves. But due to stress they start killing themselves," he said. Many Somalis in the north of the country have been internally displaced due to the drought Clashes due to lack of pastureEighty five percent of the population in Somalia depends on food aid with hundreds of aid organizations operating in the seven regions of the Federal Republic. Insecurity is the greatest challenge to the organizations in that area.Fighting among clans due to pressure on scarce resources such as pasture and water has escalated in some regions, coupled with terror attacks by al-Shabab militia. This has led to thousands of people migrating to secure areas and some living in IDP camps.Learning has been paralyzed in Somalia due to the frequent movement of families in search for pasture and food. The only education they get in IDP camps is the informal Islamic teaching -MadrassaHumanitarian organizations are operating in a tense environment forcing more people from insecure zones to migrate to where aid is available. At least&nbsp;one billion dollars is needed in Somalia to feed the over 6 million people affected by the current drought.After livestock, the frankincense trade is the largest source of revenue in Somaliland. But harvesting frankincense is not an easy task: harvesters must climb to rocky hillsides and cliff edges as well as deal with venomous snakes, among other threats. Frankincense tapper Musse Ismail Hassan learnt the profession from his father and grandfather. He admits it is a risky job, but he regrets he has no other option. In the picture, he is resting in a cave in a canyon near Gudmo, in Somaliland.Tappers wear special - but homemade - clothes to keep the sticky frankincense resin away from their skin and shoes. It s important to keep in mind that Somaliland suffers a harsh drought together with other areas of the Horn of Africa region and, in addition, it has a high rate of poverty - even though lower than the rest of Somalia. The process from harvesting to selling frankincense involves entire families. After the collection, women sort raw frankincense gum by color and size. In European shops you will probably find frankincense already separated: Pinkish, brownish, grayish, yellowish... This shows how much work it requires to reach you. These two large chunks of frankincense resin are part of a variety called maydi . It is considered to be superior to other sorts and is therefore the most expensive. The majority is exported to Saudi Arabia, where it is highly appreciated as chewing gum. Harvesters must wound the bark of the trees to collect the precious resin. The current high demand is leading to over-tapping, preventing the tree from healing fast enough and weakening it. With so many wounds unable to heal, more insects are attracted to the tree, which could finally die. Mohammed Ahmed Ali seeks resine under the frankincense branch, like many other men in the area. The price for a kilo of raw frankincense has shot up and no one wants to miss the opportunity. Frankincense harvesters have to daily face harsh conditions in the Cal Madow mountains of Somaliland, but it could worsen. With such global demand, prices and competitiveness increase, meaning that healthy trees become scarcer and harder to find. The frankincense trade has never been an easy one, but if measures are not taken, the current threat could become a heartbreaking reality.Once in the market, the hardened resin is used for religious celebrations, as a remedy for infections, for perfumes and even to alleviate anxiety and depression - but in most of the cases the final user will not know anything about the source. Checking it could be a good idea to boost sustainable harvesting from home. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz