Germany's equivalent of the CIA, the BND, has been given a new set of tasks - three years too late. But whether they will have to counter Russian election hacking remains speculation. Germany's secret services have found little evidence that the Kremlin is directly trying to manipulate the country's public opinion. But the leaked government report suggests that indirect methods may be at work. (07.02.2017) Chancellor Angela Merkel will be probably the last witness to testify before the inquiry committee investigating the scandal that was caused by Snowden's revelations. The inquiry revolves around a famous Merkel quote. (15.02.2017) Since 1999, Germany's intelligence agency (BND) has spied on journalists of various news outlets and their sources, according to a report by German news magazine "Der Spiegel" set to be published on Saturday.Media organizations targeted by the spy agency included the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), the British news agency Reuters and the American daily "The New York Times."According to the report, the BND monitored at least 50 telephone numbers, fax numbers and e-mail addresses of journalists and editorial offices across the globe.Under legislation passed in October, the BND is permitted to direct espionage operations on foreign nationals as well as EU institutions if they aim to gather "information of significance for (Germany's) foreign policy and security."However, critics slammed the legislation, which provided further government oversight over the agency's intelligence activities, for not providing specific safeguards for journalists.In Berlin, the revelations that the NSA may have listened to Chancellor Merkel's cell phone have created a wave of protest. During the Cold War, American allies established an elaborate espionage system called Echelon to eavesdrop on communication activities in the Eastern Bloc. Back then the German government was aware of US-spying tactics from places like the Teufelsberg in Berlin.Teufelsberg, or "Devil's Mountain," offered Americans an ideal vantage point over the divided city of Berlin. After World War II some 25 million tons of war rubble were heaped up in a forest on the edge of Berlin to form the city's largest hill at 120 meters. Underneath the debris lies a never completed Nazi military technical college. Today, all that's left of the spy station is a ruin.After dumping the debris of some 15,000 war-damaged buildings onto the site, the Berlin government covered the hill in vegetation and turned it into a winter sports paradise. Shortly afterwards, the US military discovered the hill provided a perfect elevation point for monitoring flight paths to West Germany and radio and telephone networks in East Germany.Part of Teufelsberg was turned into a military zone in October 1964 and the construction of the large listening station began. The project was only referred to as "The Hill" by American soldiers. Several secluded buildings as well as five powerful antenna domes were built. It is estimated that more than 1,000 people worked on the project at its busiest time.The spy station was part of the global Echelon intelligence gathering network created to monitor the military and diplomatic communications of the Soviet Union and its Eastern Bloc allies during the Cold War. It was located in the British Sector, but the Brits and Americans didn't trust each other. So they split up the area in two, built everything twice and double-eavesdropped on their enemies.Almost the entire Eastern Bloc was under surveillance, from the governing party in Eastern Germany to Soviet military facilities. Conversations in German, Czech, Polish and Russian were meticulously recorded, transcribed and translated. In a three-stage evaluation system only the most important information was forwarded. The surveillance reached up to 700 kilometers to the east.After the fall of the Berlin Wall, the listening station was abandoned. In 1992, the Americans took their electronic devices and left the radar domes behind as empty shells. The site was used for civil air surveillance for a short time before being bought by private investors. Their plan was to build apartments and hotels on the hill, but nothing resulted from their preparations.The abandoned spy station soon became a popular target for vandals. Now windows are broken, old computers smashed, the interior is in ruins and even old pipes were stolen to be sold as scrap. With rusty fences and weathered iron gates, it's clearly stated that visitors enter at their own risk. Holes in the ground, missing railings and unsecured stairwells do not make exploring the area any safer.What was once a major building site for Nazis and then a surveillance center during the Cold War is now a popular spot for enjoying a view over the German capital and surroundings. Since 2011, the site has been open to the public. The Teufelsberg Community of Interest organizes an open-air electro festival on the premises. The only question left is whether the US is still watching. Author: and photos: Anne-Sophie Br ndlin 'Violation of press freedom'The office of Reporters Without Borders in Germany (ROG) criticized the spy agency's actions in a statement published Friday."For a long time, we feared that the BND monitored journalists as part of its mass filtering of communication data, at least as 'by-catch.' The targeted monitoring revealed by 'Der Spiegel's investigation is a massive violation of press freedom," said ROG Director Christian Mihr."Already, the adoption of the BND law was a constitutional break with a message. It does not alter the current practice of monitoring journalists," he added.Meanwhile, the BBC told DW that it does not condone such practices, urging "all governments to respect the operation of a free press.""We are disappointed to hear these claims. The BBC's mission is to bring accurate news and information to people around the world and our journalists should be able to operate freely and safely, with full protection of their sources," the British broadcaster said.Right to privacyThe BND has courted controversy in recent years after revelations emerged that it monitored European targets at the behest of the US National Security Agency (NSA).Since then, Germany's parliament has launched an investigation of the agency to determine if it had violated the constitution, which prevents the BND from spying on German nationals.Under article 10, Germany's constitution protects German citizens' right to "privacy of correspondence, posts and telecommunications." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2RXD5