The domestic intelligence service has announced an uptick of hundreds in a matter of months. At least one cause of the worrying trend is the ease with which young people can become radicalized online, authorities said. Swiss police on Wednesday arrested two men for suspected involvement in terrorist activities, including recruiting for the self-styled&nbsp;"Islamic State" or similar organizations.At least 100 law enforcement officers staged several raids in the Italian-speaking region of Ticino (or Tessin to German speakers), according to the attorney general's office."The Office of the Attorney General of Switzerland is conducting criminal proceedings against two men, one with dual Swiss-Turkish citizenship and the other a Turkish citizen," prosecutors said in a statement.The raids targeted several houses and a mosque, prosecutors added. The operation formed part of an independent investigation by Swiss authorities.Although Switzerland is not considered a high-priority target for militant groups, Swiss authorities have launched probes into&nbsp;Anis Amri's possible links in the country.Rising terror&nbsp;threatIn December, Amri drove a truck through a Christmas market in Berlin, killing 12 people&nbsp;and wounding dozens more.Since 2001, more than 70 people have traveled to the Middle East from Switzerland to join militant groups, according to Swiss authorities.Over the past two years, the EU has witnessed an increase in terrorist attacks of European soil, including Berlin, Paris and Brussels.European officials and political leaders have called for increased cooperation across the bloc in a bid to tackle radicalization and the threat of terrorism.On Saturday, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said the challenges posed by terrorism could not be confronted alone, adding that the phenomenon was not inherently linked to Islam.Islamic State (IS) - also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh - is an al Qaeda splinter group with militant Sunni Islamist idealogy. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The group's goal is to create an Islamic state, or "caliphate", across Iraq, Syria and beyond.IS is believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world. It controls territory in Iraq and Syria, and its de facto capital is Raqqa, in Syria. However, the group has lost more than a quarter of its territory since January 2015. There are many groups involved in the fight against IS. The United States is leading air strikes by an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia has conducted air strikes in support of the Syrian government. Regional forces, such as the Kurdish Peshmerga (pictured above), are fighting on the ground.One of the group's main sources of income has been oil and gas - it still controls an estimated one third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led air strikes are deliberately targeting this valuable asset. Other means of income include taxes, ransoms and selling looted antiquities.IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The most deadly to date was a suicide bombing this year in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, in which more than 200 people died and many more were injured. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS can carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group.The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artefacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing", and thousands of women from religious minorites have been enslaved. The group also uses social media as a propaganda and recruitment tool.Around six million Syrians have fled abroad as a result of the ongoing conflict - many to neighboring Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, but also further afield to Europe. More than three million Iraqis have been displaced within the country. Author: Rachel Stewart ls/msh (dpa, Reuters)