The original wrought-iron gate carrying the infamous Nazi slogan "Arbeit macht frei" ("work sets you free") was returned to Dachau from Norway on Wednesday.It will&nbsp;be restored and publicly unveiled this April on&nbsp;the 72nd anniversary&nbsp;of the camp's liberation. The gate will not be returned to its original location, but rather be displayed in the museum on the grounds of the former concentration camp near Munich in&nbsp;Bavaria that now serves as a memorial. A replica of the stolen gate was installed in April 2015 for the 70th anniversary of the camp's liberation The replica that replaced the stolen gate in 2015 will remain on site."This is a meaningful day for the memorial," said Ludwig Spaenle, the Bavarian minister of cultural affairs. He called the theft of the gate an attack on a place of remembrance and said that the integrity of the memorial could now be "somewhat healed."Karl Freller, who heads the&nbsp;foundation responsible for the Dachau memorial, said he was "happy and grateful,"&nbsp;stating "now that we have the gate back we will not let it out of our sight."&nbsp;The gate, measuring roughly two meters by one meter (7 by 3&nbsp;feet) and weighing around 100 kilograms (220 pounds), was stolen in November 2014, sparking outrage at home and abroad. Two years later, the gate was&nbsp;found in a parking lot near Bergen, Norway&nbsp;after an anonymous tipster contacted the police. Forensic tests did not reveal any fingerprints or DNA.&nbsp;Investigators have not yet been able to identify any suspects and the motive for the crime remains unclear.The Dachau theft is not the first case where a relic bearing the Nazi slogan was stolen from a former concentration camp. In 2009, a sign was stolen in Auschwitz. The Swedish neo-Nazi and five Poles responsible for the theft were quickly found and sentenced to up to two and a half years in prison.A cynical propaganda sloganThe sign "Arbeit macht frei" was displayed in several large extermination camps. The phrase is considered one of the most cynical examples of Nazi propaganda language. Many of the people forced into extermination camps&nbsp;were forced to work without any compensation, literally working themselves to death in countless&nbsp;cases. The iron gate itself was a product&nbsp;of&nbsp;forced labor&nbsp;at the Dachau: communist prisoner Karl R der was forced by Nazi officials to forge the "Arbeit macht frei" slogan.&nbsp; US Vice President Pence passed through a replica of the gate during his visit last SundaySet up in 1933, the Dachau concentration camp was first such camp established by the&nbsp;Nazis and became a prototype for similar detention facilities in&nbsp;territories controlled by the Germans&nbsp;during World War II. The camp just north of Munich was initially set up to incarcerate political prisoners, but was later turned into a death camp for Jews, Sinti and Roma, homosexuals, Christian activists and other dissidents. More than&nbsp;40,000 inmates died at Dachau.Today, the former camp serves as a memorial, offering tours to teach about the horrors of the Holocaust. Dachau attracts more than&nbsp;800,000 visitors a year, including prominent international state officials, such as US Vice President Mike Pence, who visited the memorial last weekend.As Hitler's Propaganda Minister, the virulently anti-Semitic Goebbels was responsible for making sure a single, iron-clad Nazi message reached every citizen of the Third Reich. He strangled freedom of the press, controlled all media, arts, and information, and pushed Hitler to declare "Total War." He and his wife committed suicide in 1945, after poisoning their six children. The leader of the German National Socialist Workers' Party (Nazi) developed his anti-Semitic, anti-communist and racist ideology well before coming to power as Chancellor in 1933. He undermined political institutions to transform Germany into a totalitarian state. From 1939 to 1945, he led Germany in World War II while overseeing the Holocaust. He committed suicide in April 1945. As leader of the Nazi paramilitary SS ("Schutzstaffel"), Himmler was one of the Nazi party members most directly responsible for the Holocaust. He also served as Chief of Police and Minister of the Interior, thereby controlling all of the Third Reich's security forces. He oversaw the construction and operations of all extermination camps, in which more than 6 million Jews were murdered. Hess joined the Nazi party in 1920 and took part in the 1923 Beer Hall Putsch, a failed Nazi attempt to gain power. While in prison, he helped Hitler write "Mein Kampf." Hess flew to Scotland in 1941 to attempt a peace negotiation, where he was arrested and held until the war's end. In 1946, he stood trial in Nuremberg and was sentenced to life in prison, where he died. Alongside Himmler, Eichmann was one of the chief organizers of the Holocaust. As an SS Lieutenant colonel, he managed the mass deportations of Jews to Nazi extermination camps in Eastern Europe. After Germany's defeat, Eichmann fled to Austria and then to Argentina, where he was captured by the Israeli Mossad in 1960. Tried and found guilty of crimes against humanity, he was executed in 1962.A participant in the failed Beer Hall Putsch, G ring became the second-most powerful man in Germany once the Nazis took power. He founded the Gestapo, the Secret State Police, and served as Luftwaffe commander until just before the war's end, though he increasingly lost favor with Hitler. G ring was sentenced to death at Nuremberg but committed suicide the night before it was enacted. Author: Cristina Burack mb/se (epd, dpa)