Stargazers gathered in several Latin American countries on Sunday to see the moon pass in front of the sun, creating the illusion of a burning ring of fire in the sky.&nbsp;Outside the city of Sarmiento&nbsp;in southern Argentina, where the eclipse left just a narrow ring in the dark sky,&nbsp;around 300 stargazers gathered.&nbsp;Josep Masalles Roman came all the way from Barcelona, Spain, to Sarmiento. "I have already seen six annular eclipses and each one was different," he told reporters.Stop the hyperbole, please. The combination of a comet, a "snow moon" and a penumbral lunar eclipse on February 10 is actually a coincidence of two events, not three - and none are worth looking for. (10.02.2017) The sun will soon go dark in parts of SE Asia and the Pacific during a total solar eclipse on March 9 and then 8. Yes, that's written correctly. (08.03.2016) Rajat Singh from Gorakhpur, India (11.04.2016) In Chile, hundreds gathered shortly after sunrise in a central square in Coyhaique, a small town in the south of the country,&nbsp;where the eclipse was particularly well visible. Many onlookers clapped as the "ring of fire" came into view.During the so-called annular eclipse&nbsp;the moon and the sun are aligned at an angle so that the moon covers the sun, but appears smaller than the sun, creating a circle of light. While it took roughly two hours for the moon to cross the sun, the full eclipse only lasted a few minutes."As about 90 percent of the Sun is covered, you'll notice a distinct drop in temperature and brightness, and a change in the quality of the light which is hard to describe," Terry Moseley of the Irish Astronomical Association said.The eclipse only occurred within a band roughly 100 kilometers (62 miles) wide in the Southern hemisphere. Starting in the southeast Pacific at sunrise, the eclipse passed over southern Chile and Argentina before moving to African countries including Angola, Zambia and the Democratic Republic of Congo via the Atlantic.Experts warned onlookers to not gaze directly into the eclipse&nbsp;with the naked eye, because even just a fraction of the sun's light could cause eye damage by staring directly into it. Animals were expected to act unusually during the eclipse, because the unexpected darkness during the day caused them to enter their night-time routine.mb/jm (AFP, dpa)A tiny black spot - this is how Mercury looks in front of the solar disk, which it passed on Monday. It took the planet more than seven hours to travel the entire length.An astronomer took those pictures with an 800mm telescope from Kempten in the Allg u region of Bavaria. The sun is shining with such intensity that the planet is reduced to a small shadow. Even this picture could only be taken because the telescope has been darkened with a special sunray-filter.This picture is from 2006. Italy's National Institute of Astrophysics took it during a previous Mercury flyby. At least here it is easy to distinguish between the planet and frequently ocurring sunspots, or coronal mass ejections, which also appear as dark spots on the surface of the sun. The planet, however, is clearly round with sharp edges before the background of solar flares.Only a spacecraft will do. NASA's spacecraft Messenger took the best pictures of Mercury so far. The probe circled the planet from 2011 to 2015 until it finally crashed there.Messenger found a planet with a surface which does not look too differently from our Earth-Moon - at first glance: rock, sand, gravel and lots of craters left behind by meteorite impacts. But there are big differences, too: temperatures on Mercury are much more extreme. Because there is practically no atmosphere, it can get icy cold. On the other hand, the sun can make it extremely hot.This picture is a composite from thousands of pictures taken by different spectrometers in the course of countless orbits around the planet. For the first time, there is a really high-resolution image of Mercury.This area shows the eventual crash site where Messenger came down in 2015. Clearly visible: meteorite impact craters of all sizes.The astronomers who have watched Monday's Mercury flyby did not see pictures like this. The photo taken by Messenger shows an area of plains formed by volcanic activity. The different colors indicate different rock materials. Author: Fabian Schmidt