Bayrou announced on Wednesday that he would not stand in France's presidential election in April month and would instead meet with Macron to discuss an alliance, which Macron has reportedly accepted.Macron is in a close election battle with conservative Francois Fillon and far-right candidate Marine Le Pen - with only two places available in the decisive second-round runoff. In the past, Bayrou's centrist voters have played a key role in shaping&nbsp;second-round results. This year, they could help boost Macron's chances of beating Fillon in the first round and securing a head-to-head against the populist daughter of the National Front's founder."Never in the last 50 years has French democracy been in such a state of decay," Bayrou told supporters on Wednesday, adding that he had considered an election bid himself but did not want to split moderate votes and contribute to "the failure of France."In a tweet, Bayrou said "I have decided to propose an alliance to Emmanuel Macron to offer voters a true alternative."Bayrou added that his support did have a caveat."As a priority, I demand of Emmanuel Macron a morality law for public life, in particular to battle against conflicts of interests," Bayrou wrote, a reference to a scandals alleging misused funds to pay salaries of officials that have engulfed Le Pen and Fillon recently.Current polls show Le Pen reaching the second run-off stage of France's election along with either Macron or Francois Fillon, making a boost of even a few percentage points due to an endorsement by Bayrou an enticing offer.Bayrou has stood for three previous presidential elections. In 2007, he won more than 18 percent of the vote, dipping to just under 10 percent in 2012. His popularity has declined in recent years, and recent polling indicated he would win around 6 percent of the vote if he were to take part in the first round of the election.mz/msh (AFP, dpa, Reuters) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2XHalMacron quit as economy minister in August and launched his independent presidential bid in November. The 39-year-old centrist formed his own political movement, En Marche (Forward), and is seen as a reformer. He's never held elected office, but a December poll named him France's most popular politician. He's voiced admiration for German Chancellor Angela Merkel's refugee policy.The National Front leader has adopted a more moderate tone than her anti-Semitic father, party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen. But she still takes a hard line on immigration, saying children of irregular migrants should not have access to public education. She also wants France to withdraw from the eurozone and have a referendum on EU membership. It's predicted she'll advance to the second round. A surprise winner of the right-wing Republicans primaries, the socially conservative Fillon is seen to represent the interests of France's Catholic middle class. An admirer of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, he supports a liberal economic policy. Until Penelopegate struck, he was widely projected as the winner of a run-off against Le Pen. In a runoff against former French PM Manuel Valls in the Socialist primary, Hamon was the more left-wing choice of the two politicians. The 49-year-old supports a universal basic income and wants to reduce the traditional work week to 35 hours. He has also spoken in support of legalizing cannabis and increased investment in renewable energy. Author: Samantha Early