More than 40 different agencies worked on the terror suspect's case before the Christmas market attack. Despite a looming deportation order, authorities failed to stop him, even when he was on their radar. How can young Muslims be shielded from extremism? A symposium in Frankfurt recommends carefully vetting partners, while working closely with Muslim organizations. (02.11.2016) Berlin's office of the interior banned the&nbsp;mosque association known as "Fussilet 33" on Tuesday. The organization is suspected of being a meeting point for radical Islamists, prosecutors said.Anis Amri, a Tunisian national who launched an attack on a Berlin Christmas market in December that left 12 people dead and dozens more injured, frequented the mosque, according to authorities.Last week, authorities in Berlin arrested&nbsp;three men suspected of links to the self-proclaimed "Islamic State" (IS) militant group in an anti-terror&nbsp;raid. Police said the men had visited the&nbsp;mosque operated by the association.Police raided 24 locations across Berlin&nbsp;early Tuesday morning with more than 400 law enforcement officers participating in the operation, local authorities said in a tweet.Authorities closed the mosque following raids last week. The mosque has been under surveillance since 2015 for its suspected links in recruitment activities. It had also raised donations to support terrorist attacks in Syria.Counterterrorism measuresBanning the association means that the group is formally disbanded and can no longer rent mosques for their activities.Germany has taken proactive measures to curb terrorist threats and tackle radicalization following the Berlin attack.The measures&nbsp;include launching dozens of raids across the country and proposing legislation&nbsp;to detain foreign nationals suspected of extremist activity&nbsp;who have been denied residency, a precursor for deportation.According to Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere, more than 500 individuals have been classified as a potential threat&nbsp;in Germany, of which roughly half of them are non-German nationals.Police in Leipzig arrested 22-year-old Syrian refugee Jaber al-Bakr after a two-day manhunt following the discovery of explosives and other bomb-making equipment at his apartment in Chemnitz. He was suspected of plotting to attack a Berlin airport. Two days later, he hanged himself in his prison cell. In July, the "Islamic State" (IS) claimed responsibility for two attacks carried out by asylum seekers. 15 people were injured in a crowded wine bar next to the entrance to a music festival in the Bavarian town of Ansbach after a rejected Syrian asylum seeker detonated an explosive device. The man killed himself in the attack. A 17-year-old asylum seeker wielding an axe and a knife went on a rampage on a regional train near W rzburg, seriously injuring four members of a tourist family from Hong Kong and a passer-by. The attacker was shot dead by police. German authorities said the teenager was believed to be a "lone wolf" inspired by the IS, but without being a member of the network. Three suspected members of the "Islamic State" terror network were arrested in the German states of North Rhine-Westphalia, Brandenburg and Baden W rttemberg. Authorities say two of the men planned to blow themselves up in downtown D sseldorf, while the other attacker and a fourth jihadist arrested in France planned to target pedestrians with guns and explosive devices.Police arrested three people over a bomb blast that injured three people in a Sikh temple in Essen. The bomb detonated after a wedding party, blowing out windows and destroying a part of the building's exterior. A 16-year-old suspect turned himself in after police showed footage of the attack from a surveillance camera and special police units arrested another young suspect in his parents' home.German-Moroccan Safia S. is charged with stabbing a police officer at the main train station in the northern city of Hanover. The 16-year-old girl is suspected of having been "motivated by members of the Islamic State group in Syria to commit this act," chief prosecutor Simon Heinrichs said.In separate raids across the country, police arrested three Algerians suspected of links to the "Islamic State" militant group and of having planned a terrorist attack in Berlin. The Berlin prosecutor's office said prosecutors were aware of a "concrete" plan to target the capital. The Eschborn-Frankfurt City loop bike race was called off after German police discovered it may have been the target of an Islamist terror attack. A 35-year-old German with a Turkish background and his 34-year-old wife were arrested on suspicion of planning the attack. Police found bomb-making materials in their home near the bike route. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach ls/kms (dpa, AFP)