Bart Jensen has always had a thing for collecting dead animals. So when his beloved cat Orville died after being hit by a car, the Dutch artist decided to immortalize the family pet by turning him into a&nbsp;drone."Orville was named after one of the famous flying brothers, Orville Wright - and he loved birds too, and so after he passed on, we decided to make him an aviator again," Jensen says."I've been picking up dead animals since I was a kid. All things 'biology' have always interested me. In 2007, I made this book called The Observer's Book of Road kill - a 60-kilo book full of taxidermied animals that smelled really bad!&nbsp;And then someone ran over my cat. I had to do something."Jensen enlisted the help of his friend, mechanical engineer&nbsp;Arjen Beltman. Together&nbsp;they designed the OrvilleCopter. And that was just the beginning.A flying menagerieBart and Arjen began to seek&nbsp;out other animals they could use for their drone experiments. Which is how a shark, a badger and a rat have all taken to the skies posthumously."I built RatCopter for a classmate of my son," says Beltmann. "Unfortunately, his pet rat, Ratjetoe, had cancer. So when he saw Orville flying, he wanted his rat to have a second life as well. So, we made a dream come true."Jansen then received a phone call from a Dutch ostrich farm."There are about nine ostrich farms in Holland, but our climate is not very ostrich-friendly," he explains. "It's wet, cold and clammy, and ostriches really like dry, sandy and African [climates]. I ended up receiving an ostrich, which had just died."And so, Jansen and Beltmann turned their attention to making one of the world's most renowned flightless birds into a flying machine - the OstrichCopter.The OstrichCopter turns a flightless bird into a flying machine"It's a young male, about 2.5 metres in length, with brown and white features and four propellers now stuck out of it," Jensen says.Technological absurdityBart says &nbsp;his inventions are designed to highlight the absurdity of&nbsp;our race for technical progress and insatiable drive for consumption.&nbsp;"Humanity is addicted to new things, to technological progress, but people try to solve problems by inventing a machine that solves the problem for them. But half of these machines make more and more problems."The car, for instance, wasn't such a bad idea but now we have to invent things to solve the problems that cars make, so we are stuck in this technological race," Jansen says."I put a lot of effort in making something work that no one has any use for. It is really a lot of fun."The sky's the limit!Jensen and Beltman now have even more ambitious plans to expand their collection of animal drones and incorporate larger flying creatures."I'd like to do a blue whale but it unfortunately it can't be done -&nbsp;it's too greasy and too large,"&nbsp;Jensen says."We've been wanting to build a helicopter that could transport us around, so we're looking at creating a flying cow. It's in the tannery right now. With the bovine aircraft set to house a human pilot, Jensen says anything is possible for this experimental artistic collaboration."I don't know exactly what to call it - if it's not art, I don't know what else it is, because [these drones] don't have any real use. But they do make us think and that's usually what art does, so let's call it art."