At least four people have been killed and eight injured in anti-government protests in Venezuela. The deaths brought to at least 80 the number of people killed since the protests erupted in April. (02.07.2017) Venezuela's chief of intelligence has been summoned to court on suspicion of committing "grave and systemic human rights violations." Hours after the announcement, he was promoted to chief of the nation's military. (01.07.2017) A senior US official has accused Venezuela of trampling on "democracy" as she urged further action to redress an explosive political crisis. But Caracas has said US proposals for mediation were "completely useless." (23.06.2017) Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro has identified a renegade police officer as the culprit behind the helicopter attack on two Venezuelan government buildings. Oscar Perez is apparently also a local action film star. (28.06.2017) As deadly anti-government protests continue to take place in Venezuela, Pope Francis appealed for a peaceful solution on Sunday."I assure this dear nation of my prayers and express my closeness to the families who have lost their children in the street protests," the Argentina-born pope said at the end of a prayer in Saint Peter's Square."I call for an end to violence and a peaceful and democratic solution to the crisis," he added.His appeal came two days after four protesters aged 20 to 49 died, raising the death toll to 89 since the protests erupted three months ago. No official details were provided on their deaths, although one opposition lawmaker said the victims died by gunfire.Demonstrators have been calling for the ouster of Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, whose term in office runs until January 2019.Maduro is blamed for the current economic crisis, which has led to massive shortages in food, medicine and other basic goods.Vatican-sponsored talks to mediate in the Venezuelan crisis broke down last year. Recently, Venezuelan bishops traveled to the Vatican to brief Francis on their criticism of the actions of Venezuelan authorities. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fQe8rs/jm (AP, AFP)