Germany's Angelique Kerber (above) is safely into the second round of Wimbledon after a comfortable 6-4, 6-4 victory over Irina Falconi on Center Court.The number-one seed from Kiel in northern Germany took just under one-and-a-half hours to defeat the American qualifier and set up a second-round match with former semifinalist Kirsten Flipkens of Belgium.It's been a difficult 2017 for Kerber who has struggled to replicate the success of last year when she won two grand slams and reached the Wimbledon final, losing to Serena Williams. But after an early break gave her a 3-0 first set lead, she never looked in danger against Falconi."When I stepped on to the court, all the memories from last year came back, but I tried to concentrate on today's match," said Kerber. "I'm happy to be back, but this year is completely different for me. I'm just happy I'm through the first round,"Novak Djokovic, of Serbia, plays a forehand during his first round Singles match against Slovakia's Martin KlizinDjokovic, Federer throughIn the men's draw, Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer both progressed after their respective opponents retired injured. Slovakian Martin Klizan was forced to quit with a calf injury when trailing by one set and 0-2 to Djokovic before Alexandr Dolgopolov of Ukaine also retired.Elsewhere, Germany's Mischa Zverev joined Dustin Brown in round two after he beat Bernard Tomic of Australia 6-4, 6-3, 6-3. The Australian caused controversy post-match when he claimed that he wasn't really interested in tennis any more."It was definitely a mental issue out there," Tomic told reporters. "I tried to find a bit of momentum but I couldn't find any rhythm. I wasn't mentally and physically there and I felt a little bit bored, to be honest."Wimbledon is the world's oldest tennis tournament and is held annually at the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet club in Wimbledon, London. In 2009, its Centre Court was fitted with a retractable roof to lessen the loss of playing time due to rain. There are 18 courts used for the Championships (and 22 practice courts) and it takes 15 months and nine tonnes of grass seed to prepare the courts.In modern sports, where advertising dominates team kits and color is everywhere, there is something brilliant about the fact that the kits of Wimbledon players must be 90 percent white. White does not include cream or off-white, just white. Originally, it was to avoid sweat showing. Andre Agassi's wild taste was tamed in the 90s, while Roger Federer's orange-soled shoes weren't part of the code. It might look like good fun being a ball boy/girl at Wimbledon, but training for those in charge of the balls and the towels is perhaps tougher than any other tournament. The 14 to 18 year old school kid train for five months and from 700 applicants, only 250 end up on the coveted grass. The average age is 15 and most spend two years as a ball boy/girl.Other than the green of the grass and the white of the kit, the other color often seen at Wimbledon is red. Strawberries and cream are the tournament's favorite dish. During the tournament, 28,000 kilogramms of strawberries and 10,000 liters of fresh cream are eaten. Add to that the 320,000 glasses of Pimm's, 29,000 bottles of champagne and 25,000 scones then it's no surprise Wimbledon is awesome.One thing about grass that other tournaments can't offer is more remarkable shots. A 17-yera-old Boris Becker made it famous when he won hearts and the Wimbledon trophy in 1985, but his famous dive carried on even after he stopped played. In 2011, Novak Djokovic and Jo-Wilfried Tsonga had an incredible rally of diving shots, while Dustin Brown did the same against Lleyton Hewitt in 2013.Both the men's and women's trophies are some of the finest in sport. The Rosewater Dish, the trophy for the women's single champion, has a mythological theme and has the Roman goddess of wisdom and strategic warfare (Minerva) etched around the rim. The champions receive a three-quarter size replica with all the previous champions engraved, as well as the $2.8 million both winners receive.