Germany's interior minister, Thomas de Maiziere, has outlined proposals designed to control potential rioters and prevent a repeat of the chaos and destruction seen on the streets of Hamburg during last week's G20 summit.De Maiziere told Germany's Funke media group that those found guilty of rioting could be made to follow strict orders to regularly report themselves to authorities, especially before and during rallies. They could also be made to wear electronic tags. Read more: Victim of Hamburg G20 riots: 'You just feel completely helpless'"Rioters should not be allowed to even reach the demonstration spots in the first place," de Maiziere said, adding that German authorities had already introduced similar preventive measures against football hooligans.The "Battle of Seattle" in 1999 marked the unofficial start of the anti-globalization movement. Organizing under the radar, this new protest movement burst onto the scene with tens of thousands taking to the streets - and shutting the city down. Protesters criticized the World Trade Organization (WTO) as promoting a "race to the bottom" in terms of environmental, human rights and labor standards.The Seattle actions brought together a broad coalition, with rank-and-file labor unionists marching arm-in-arm with environmentalists. Previously at odds over jobs, the two factions now faced a common enemy: corporate dominance and the unchecked quest for corporate profit. International financial institutions promoting free trade became the symbols - and targets - of this broad new movement."Think globally, act locally" is one of the slogans of the anti-globalization movement. Demonstrators organized protests as street parties in response to a crackdown from authorities and made calls to decentralize and globalize. As the G8 met in Cologne in June 1999, "J18" protests also took place in London and Eugene, Oregon. The emphasis on having fun drew many young people into the movement.In 2001, thousands protested the G8 under the slogan "another world is possible." This alternative vision was against environmental destruction and the growing gap between rich and poor. Indeed, a criticism of the anti-globalization movement was that it was against so much - but what was it for? Protests in Genoa were marked by clashes between security forces and increasingly militant protesters.As many as 20,000 policemen sought to keep the demonstrations under control - in vain. The legacy of Genoa included innumerable injuries, and even one fatality: Police shot dead the Italian Carlo Giuliani in a street battle. For years afterward, such summits were held in increasingly remote - and defendable - locations. For the protesters, this symbolized how they served - above all - the elite.In 2001, the WTO met in Doha - for protesters, hard to reach - and with Qatar not exactly known to vaunt free speech. Was the era of mass anti-globalization demonstrations over? Doha's slick and elite image added fuel to the accusation that such institutions were insulating themselves against popular movements.The G20 summit in Toronto in 2010 went down in history - as the scene of Canada's largest mass arrest. Police cracked down violently on demonstrators, arresting more than a thousand people - who were mostly later release without charge. The mass false arrests here had followed similar actions: in Washington at IMF/ World Bank protests in 2002, and at the FTAA protest in Miami in 2003.In 2015, the G7 meeting at Schloss Elmau in Bavaria - likewise a remote and defendable location - took up a number of environmental topics, such as threats to the world's oceans. G7 countries vowed to more effectively and intensively work on fighting waste in the seas. Environmental topics appeared to have broken through to agendas that previously had been dominated by economic ones.For the G20 to set its 2017 meeting in the major metropolis of Hamburg could be seen as a reconciliation. Currently in the rotating presidency of the G20, Germany has been praised by civil society groups for its attempts to engage, such as here at the "Civil20" meeting in June. Climate change is at the top of Germany's G20 agenda - reflecting increasing concern over the issue worldwide.In Hamburg, urban camping should reduce the environmental footprint of protesters - although a conflict over whether to allow such camping within the city has been a bone of contention. Again, 20,000 police will attempt to keep order during the summit. An atmosphere similar to that of a summer music festival is tempered with serious undertones as protests get underway.As the most polluting fossil fuel, coal is a clear target. Greenpeace activists pulled alongside the Chinese coal freighter "Golden Opportunity" in Hamburg's port to point out Germany's hypocritical position on the topic. Similar actions are surely to come - learning from the anti-globalization movement, the climate justice movement has built a broad coalition. It's not just eco-freaks anymore! Author: Hannah Fuchs, Sonya Angelica Diehn Forcing rioters and hooligans to report themselves to the police was a "relatively mild" but "very effective," measure the German minister said.Officials warn of growing left-wing extremist sceneAs the leaders of world's 20 richest countries gathered in Hamburg last week, the north German port city was the scene of violent protests, as hundreds of activists looted shops, torched cars and battled with police.Read more: Germany asks for EU help following Hamburg G20 protestsOn Saturday, Hans-Georg Maassen, the head of the domestic security agency Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV), warned of the growing threat posed by Germany's left-wing extremist scene. "We have in Germany a very strong left-wing extremist scene, made up of about 28,000 people, of whom 8,500 are prone to violence," Maassen told local media.However, the Social Democratic Party (SPD) interior minister for the state of Lower Saxony, Boris Pistorius, warned against comparing leftist extremists with their right-wing counterparts. "There are twice as many criminal offences committed by right-wing extremists," Pistorius said. "And there are many more instances of bodily harm and even homicides committed by extremists from the right."Pistorius is currently advising the SPD's Martin Schulz, Chancellor Angela Merkel's challenger in September's election, on internal security.According to German intelligence, there have been around 1,200 violent offences committed by left-wing extremist groups, compared to the 1,600 offences by right-wing extremists.Rote Flora, an old theater in Hamburg's Sternschanze quarter, has for years served as a meeting point for the city's left-wing movement. Built in 1888, it hosted concerts and operettas until the Second World War. It emerged undamaged after the war and reopened in 1953 as a cinema before later being turned into a department store.In 1987, the department store closed down. Subsequent plans to turn the building into a musical theater again were met by protests from residents and local shopkeepers. Soon after, a number of militant groups joined the demonstrations, forcing plans to be completely abandoned. Two years later Rote Flora was declared a squat, while also functioning as a center for political and cultural events. During the 2007 G8 summit in Hamburg, Rote Flora served as a convergence center for a number of anti-capitalist protest movements. That prompted large clashes between police and protestors. Authorities also stormed the old theater, detaining a number of protest organizers.A decision by the city of Hamburg in December 2013 to redevelop the Rote Flora site saw it again become the focus of large and oftentimes violent demonstrations. Just a month later, the borough of Altona went back on its plans, announcing that the building would not be demolished and would remain a cultural center.Many of the anti-capitalist protest movements seen during this year's G20 summit in Hamburg were organized at Rote Flora, including the "Welcome to Hell" march. However, few would have foreseen just how much the demonstrations would be overshadowed by violence and destruction.As the violence escalated around Hamburg on Thursday and Friday night, Rote Flora was quick to distance itself from the so-called "Black Blocs" rioters. Andreas Blechschmidt, a spokesman for Rote Flora, said a "form of militancy had poured out on to the streets which was intoxicated with itself ... and we find that politically ... wrong."Hamburg police responded to the violence with water canons and tear gas, a response some said only further provoked the rioters. "We saw a Hamburg police force that time and time again opt to use violence," Rote Flora spokesman Andreas Blechschmidt said. "I think that played a role last night [Friday], and made people say to themselves, 'Right, that deserves pay back.'" Author: David Martin Conflicting reports over number of police injuriesFollowing the G20 in Hamburg, German authorities reported that around 500 police officers had been injured in the clashes with violent demonstrators.Read more: Steinmeier and Hamburg Mayor Olaf Scholz praise G20 copsHowever, those numbers were quickly disputed following an investigation by online news site BuzzFeed News, which found the number of police injuries during the actual summit protests to be markedly lower, at 231.The initial number referred back to the number of injuries sustained during the whole of the G20 deployment, from June 22 to July 10, state and federal police later said. However, that toll also took into account dehydration and breathing problems caused by the high temperatures. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2gEqbdm/jm (dpa, AFP)