Forty-eight people were traveling on the bus when it slammed into a semitrailer near the Bavarian town of M nchberg early Monday, police said. Up to 18 people were feared dead."Thirty passengers were taken to hospitals, some with serious injuries. The others are believed to have died in the burning tour bus," police said in a statement. Read more: Road accidents in Germany on the riseGovernment spokesman Steffen Seibert said Chancellor Angela Merkel voiced "great dismay" at the crash."Unfortunately numerous people...lost their lives in this burning bus," Seibert told a news conference. "Our thoughts go to the victims and their family members, as well as to the injured. We hope that those who have been rescued will recover from their injuries."Read more: How safe is bus travel in Europe?Forensic specialists have been sent to the site to remove and identify the bodies from the charred vehicle. Federal Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt was also en route. Rescue helicopters on the A9 highway near M nchberg after Monday's deadly bus crashLocal mayor: 'This is just catastrophic'Footage broadcast on German television showed a burnt-out bus wreck on the A9 highway with helicopters, ambulances, fire brigade trucks and 200 rescue workers on the scene. Police said the roadway's southbound lanes would remain closed for the rest of the day. The mayor of the nearby town of Stammbach, Karl Philipp Ehrler, told the German Press Agency it was the worst accident the community had experienced."It's madness. This is just catastrophic," he said. Holiday ends in tragedy The coach went up in flames after it plowed into the truck at the end of a traffic jam shortly after 7 a.m. local time (0500 UTC). There was no immediate information about what happened to the truck driver.Police said the tour group of German senior citizens was from the eastern state of Saxony. According to the Bild newspaper, they were heading for Nuremberg.The A9 motorway connects several popular holiday spots in the southern German region, which is known for its castles and hot spas. The crash, at the start of the Europe's summer holiday season, follows a fatal accident in January in which a Hungarian bus traveling through Italy burst into flames, killing 16 students. In October 2015, 43 people died when a coach collided with a truck and caught fire near Puisseguin in southwest France - the country's worst road accident in three decades.Berlin's inner-city AVUS is widely considered to be Germany's oldest autobahn. It was built between 1913 and 1921. Back then, it was only 10 km (6.2 miles) long. And because it was so short, many call the AVUS an autobahn prototype.The first "proper" autobahn in Germany went into operation on August 6, 1932, connecting Cologne and Bonn. Literally translated, the highway was officially called "vehicles-only road." Today, the stretch is part of the A555 autobahn.Historians make a point of emphasizing that the myth about Adolf Hitler commissioning the building of the first German autobahn is just that - a myth. The highway mentioned in the previous slide was a project initiated by the then lord mayor of Cologne, Konrad Adenauer.A look at national statistics around the globe reveals that Australia boasts the longest highway. Its National Highway (also known as Highway 1) spans the whole continent, having a total length of well over 14,000 km (8,700 miles).Germany for its part is known for one of the densest highway networks with a total length of roughly 13,000 km (8,077 miles). While this makes up only 6 percent of all long-distance roads in the country, almost a third of total road traffic depends on it.German Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt hopes the introduction of a passenger car toll for highways in Germany will wash around 500 million euros ($535 million) into state coffers annually. Opponents argue that's a myth, citing enormous infrastructure costs to collect the toll. Author: Hardy Graupner nm/rg (AFP, AP, dpa)