On the surface, the decision of the United Kingdom to withdraw from the so-called London Fisheries Convention (LFC), an agreement that allowed European nations to fish in each other's waters, was an inevitable part of the Brexit process.Nonetheless, the 10,000 metric tons of fish that foreign fleets catch annually in British coastal waters is only a fraction to the 708,000 tonnes of fish that UK fisheries collected in the same waters in 2015.UK Environment Secretary Michael Gove said the decision to exit the 53-year-old fishing agreement was about "taking back control" of UK waters. He also called common fisheries policy "an environmental disaster," saying the decision to withdraw was made to "ensure that we can have sustainable fish stocks for the future.""I think it's important that we recognize that leaving the European Union is going to help the environment," Gove added.In May, the UK also committed to leaving the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP), a set of rules for managing European fishing fleets and for conserving fish stocks, when Brexit is carried through in two years.Yet environmentalists are sounding the alarm over concern for marine ecosystems.Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage (right) made UK control of fishing waters a central part of his successful Brexit campaign UK blames EU for 'environmental destruction'"I was quite surprised," Will McCallum, Greenpeace UK head of oceans, told DW in response to Gove's statement. "Leaving the London Convention provides no guarantee of sustainability at all."He points to the fact that fish stocks have "generally improved" since these agreements came into effect. "To blame [the LFC and CFP] for having a negative environmental impact on fish stocks is a first for me," McCallum said, adding that the agreements regulated an industry that had seen "major fish stock collapses.""It's important that we don't roll back on any of the progress that has been made over the last 30 years," he said.McCallum also insists that the UK must continue to cooperate with neighboring countries in order to insure sustainability of stock. "Fish don't stay in our waters," he pointed out. "They move across borders. They're migratory." This French fishing trawler working off the Welsh coast will be banned under Brexit Protecting marine waters post-Brexit Environmental advocates are also concerned that withdrawal from this and many other EU marine water agreements will threaten broader marine biodiversity.Tom West, an associate researcher at London-based ClientEarth, says that Gove's talk about regaining control of fisheries must also include laws to protect UK marine protected areas, which have conservation under EU law. "Withdrawing from the LFC and the CFP without any sign so far of what will replace them is risking rowing back on hard-won environmental protections over the last 40 years," he said in a statement after Gove's announcement on Sunday.Beyond specific fisheries agreements, ClientEarth is concerned about protecting broader marine biodiversity, especially when the UK is no longer subject to the EU Marine Strategy framework directive, implemented in 2008.Not just fish - also whales and other marine life will be affected by the BrexitThe marine directive is currently working toward its goal of achieving Good Environmental Status (GES), which translates into maintaining biodiversity in the EU's marine waters by 2020 - and "to protect the resource base upon which marine-related economic and social activities depend."UK waters also contain marine protected areas that are among the more than 3,000 "Natura 2000" EU directive sites.West stressed the importance of clearly deciding how the law will protect these, and how they will be managed post-Brexit. "We want to make sure we don't go back on those 40 years of protections that we gained," he told DW.Oversight and accountability West is among numerous environmental lawyers and activists who believe that ecological protections could be significantly weaker outside the EU legal framework."The loss of the oversight provided by European Union bodies - the commission, the courts, et cetera - is going to be a threat to the vital protections that we've achieved in the last 40 years," said West.McCallum agrees that the onus is on the UK government to ensure that checks and balances are put in place, and "to ensure accountability and proper cooperation with neighboring countries." Removing a fundamental layer of accountability may make empty words of Michael Gove's promise that leaving the EU will be better for the marine environment.English fish? Environmental campaigners say cross-border agreements essential to protect migratory fish stocks West said it would be possible improve protections. But much more plausible, he thinks, is "that there are threats and risks to the standard of our environmental protection and to the oversight and enforcement of it."The other fear is timing: There are only two years to create new legal protections before an inevitable period of legal limbo sets in."It's hard to see how those cooperative processes will be replaced withing this really, really, really short timeframe we've got," said West.Carrying sustainability forwardMeanwhile, other groups applauded the move.The Scottish Fishermen's Federation (SFF), which supports Brexit and the general withdrawal from EU agreements, echoed the claim that the decision would be good for the environment."Fishermen have to be pleased with this first step to taking back control of our own waters," tweeted the SFF. Greenpeace agrees that fishing rights need to be prioritized to those who are fishing more sustainably. But it argues these can both be foreign and local fleets."If boats are proven to be fishing in a sustainable way, if they're shown to be providing local employment, there's no reason why, in Greenpeace's opinion, they shouldn't be fishing in our waters," said McCallum.Why did 12 sperm whales end up on German and Dutch beaches last week? What caused them to die? An autopsy of the more than 10-meter-long (33-foot-long) carcasses is supposed to reveal answers.For the autopsy, the whales were transported from the beach to mainland Germany. "Difficult and fascinating at the same time," Almut Kottwitz - the deputy environment minister of the German state of Lower Saxony - told DW. A female sperm whale weighs 15 metric tons (16.5 tons), a male up to 60 tonnes. Even though the beached whales were still quite young, they had to be moved with cranes.First, the whale's skin is cut into strips and peeled from the body. Preparers removed its muscles and ligaments, and gathered up the innards. "It cut me to the quick to see how these beautiful animals were being skinned and torn apart," an observer of the procedure told DW.One of the skeletons was brought to Giessen University. Visible here is the whale's jaw - the bones will be treated for display. Another skeleton will be exhibited at a marine museum in Stralsund.Some of the beached whales seem to have been undernourished, the atopsies found. No wonder: sperm whales feed on giant squids. And these don't live in the North Sea. "Their stomachs and their bowels were entirely empty," Almut Kottwitz told DW, adding that undernourishment seems to be "at least one of the reasons why they died." When whales are hungry and weak, they can get more easily lost.Others among the sperm whales, however, seem to have been well-fed before they ended up on the beach, Ursula Siebert of the University of Veterinary Medicine in Hannover told DW: "They still had undigested beaks of giant squids in their stomachs, and feces in their bowels." Once on the beach, their weight compresses their blood vessels and lungs, causing them to die.Sperm whales are not made to live in the shallow North Sea. They mostly live thousands of meters under water. In the North Sea, their echolocation doesn't work correctly. "When they arrive at the North Sea, they don't have muchof a chance of finding their way out of it again," vet and zoologist Siebert said. Ultimately, they beach and die.A week ago, more than 80 short-finned pilot whales got stranded on the beach of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. Conservationists managed to push some animals back into the sea, but most of them died. Fabian Ritter of the Whale and Dolphin Conservation estimates that thousands of whales beach every year.The more socially minded a whale species is, the higher the number of whales that beach from that group. The long-finned pilot whale is one of these species, Fabian Ritter says. These whales have a very strong connection within their family group, or pod. "When the leader is ill or out of sorts, and swims onto the beach, the other group members follow - out of loyalty."Conservationists warn that underwater noise is dangerous for marine mammals. "Whales have a very sensitive sense of hearing and communicate via sound with each other," Fabian Ritter says. "Loud noise such as from military exercises disorients them." Especially beaked whales are known to beach more often when there is too much noise underwater, Rittter says.Solar winds disturb the Earth's magnetic field. Whales might get confused and beach more frequently, researchers found. At the end of December 2015 were three major solar winds, physicist Klaus Vanselow of Kiel University told DW. This might have led the 12 sperm whales to take a wrong turn into the North Sea - and end in death on its beaches. Author: Brigitte Osterath