A 2,200-square-mile (5,800-square-kilometer) chunk of ice has separated from the Larsen C ice shelf. The new iceberg is one of the largest ever recorded.Scientists who have been observing the growing crack in the Larsen C ice shelf for months announced Wednesday that the trillion-ton iceberg had finally broken away at some point in the last two days. Towards the end, the process accelerated. The crack suddenly extended 11 miles (17 kilometers) within one week in May.The Larsen C ice shelf has now been reduced in sized by a record 10 percent.While the new iceberg will have little to no immediate impact on the region or its biodiversity, scientists are worried about the long-term effects.Natural cycleBreakaways of icebergs in the Antarctic are part of a natural cycle. Ice constantly flows toward the ocean. As a result, the ice shelf grows by an average of 760 yards (700 meters) each year.At some point, a section breaks away and the ice shelf begins to grow again."The iceberg won't raise global sea levels," Daniela Jansen, a geophysicist at the Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research in Bremerhaven, Germany, told DW."It's like ice cubes in a glass of water. They don't raise the amount of water in the glass when they melt."But the latest break could cause the Larsen C ice shelf to become unstable and eventually collapse.Two smaller shelves to the north have already collapsed. Larsen A disappeared in 1995, and seven years later Larsen B collapsed.Climate change culpritScientists attribute these collapses, and the retreat of several Antarctic ice shelves in recent decades, to global warming."The collapse of Larsen A and B has been connected to warming ocean temperatures in the Antarctic Peninsula," said Jansen. "The question is now whether the trend will spread toward the south and destabilize Larsen C, too."Scientists will now be monitoring Larsen C to see if it follows the natural cycle and grows again - or melts further and eventually collapses.Penguins don't live in the region of the break and will not be affectedData from the Antarctic research project MIDAS at the University of Swansea in the United Kingdom already point toward an eventual collapse - which could take decades.But unlike the icebergs that break off of the ice shelf, the ice behind it is on land. These shelves of sea ice act to hold back inland glaciers. If an ice shelf collapse allowed that ice to flow into the sea, it would melt, contributing to sea level rise.Lessons for the futureThe Antarctic is a highly complicated system, and scientists haven't been monitoring long enough to detect trends and make forecasts.That's one reason the break of the Larsen C ice shelf has garnered so much attention."We receive new satellite images every six days. It's very exciting because we can monitor the entire process now - something we haven't been able to do before," Jansen said.She added that lessons learned from Larsen C are potentially very significant for the future. "The data allows us to create models to make more long-term forecasts for even bigger ice shelves."Scientists are worried the collapse of ice shelves, and the ice sheets behind them, could destabilize glaciers in Western Antarctica. The West Antarctic ice sheet holds enough frozen water to raise sea levels by about 6 meters (20 feet) if it were to melt.Penguins a favorite animal for many because of their clumsy, waddling gait offer researchers a useful way to measure the health of their habitat. Christian Reiss, an Antarctic fisheries biologist at the US-based National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, said: "Penguins are great ambassadors for understanding the need to conserve Southern Ocean resources."Two thirds of the world's 18 penguin species, which range from the volcanic Galapagos Islands on the equator to the frozen sea ice of Antarctica, are in decline, according to a Pew study from 2015. Antarctic penguins in particular are vulnerable to climate change as shifting ice reduces their habitat and warming seas affect their prey.Scientists blame the decline in penguin numbers on intense fishing pressure on forage species such as krill, as well as pollution, damage to penguin breeding grounds, and climate change. Only two types of penguin the Ad lie and the King - are increasing in numbers, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List of Threatened Species.Penguins live most of their lives at sea but return to land to breed and molt. This makes them important gauges of marine health that are easily accessible to researchers, who can then develop conservation strategies. Stanford University marine scientist Cassandra Brooks said: "Scientists need to continue working to untangle the complex interactions between climate change and penguin populations."The Ross Sea one of the last intact marine ecosystems in the world, home to penguins is getting a boost. A deal sealed last year by the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources - an international group tasked with overseeing conservation and sustainable exploitation of the Antarctic Ocean - will see a massive US and New Zealand-backed marine protected area in the Ross Sea. The largest of the 18 penguin species found today are emperors. They are around 120cm tall and weigh about 40kg, although their weight fluctuates through the year. But fossils recovered from the Antarctic peninsula reveal that a huge species of penguin which lived around 37 million years ago would have dwarfed emperors the ancient penguins may have stood 2 meters tall and weighed up to 115kg.Ad lie penguins are one of only five species of penguins that live on the Antarctic continent, the others being the emperor, gentoo, chinstrap and macaroni penguins. Like all penguins, Ad lies are excellent swimmers - some have been recorded swimming as far as 300 km (150 km each way) to forage for their chicks. Author: Melanie Hall