Despite heavy rain, Canadians turned out across the country to mark the country's 150th birthday with outdoor concerts, citizenship ceremonies and a royal visit by Prince Charles and his wife, Camilla. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau kicked off the celebrations in the capital, Ottawa, speaking in front of the thousands of revelers on Parliament Hill."Canada is a country made strong not in spite of our differences but because of them," Trudeau said. "We don't aspire to be a melting pot - indeed, we know true strength and resilience flows through Canadian diversity."Indigenous protestsThe anniversary was not without controversy, particularly among First Nations who noted Canada's history of mistreatment of indigenous people. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fYWROn Thursday, activists erected a teepee on Parliament Hill on Thursday in protest, and on Saturday indigenous protesters marched through the streets of Toronto, some holding the Canadian national flag upside down.Trudeau met with the activists in Ottawa on Friday.Saturday was the 150th anniversary of the founding of the self-governing state. On July 1, 1867, the British North America Act united the British provinces of New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Quebec and Ontario into the Dominion of Canada.With its stunning landscape of fjords and mountains, the Gros Morne National Park is a trekker's and paddler's paradise. The eerie Tablelands, a formation of rock displaying earth's crust, offers a clear demonstration of the continental drift process, which is why the park was designated UNESCO World Heritage Site. The small fishing town of Rocky Harbour is a good base to reach the park.Nova Scotia's Cape Breton Island boasts one of the world's most scenic drives, the Cabot Trail, which winds along mountains around the coast with unforgettable views on the ocean. It's also a great spot for hiking and kayaking. The Fortress of Louisbourg, where French soldiers fought the English in the 18th century, is the largest historical reconstruction of such a site in North America.Most of the coastline of Prince Edward Island is still in a pristine state, making it an ideal destination for its sandy beaches and red cliffs. For fans of Lucy Maud Montgomery's 1908 novel "Anne of Green Gables," the island is also synonymous with the site that inspired the classic story of the red-haired orphan, making the Green Gables Heritage Place in Cavendish (photo) a must-see attraction.The tides of the Bay of Fundy are the world's highest. The Hopewell Rocks are a good site to explore the impressive phenomenon, as one can walk around the unique stone formations at low tide and see them gradually turn into islands under high tide. The region is also famous for its whale-watching boat excursions.Founded in the early 17th century, the capital city of the province of Quebec is one of the oldest cities in North America. With its ramparts and unusually well-preserved architecture, Quebec City's historic town center is a UNESCO World Heritage Site where one can still feel the French heritage of its colonial times - and French is still the first-spoken language throughout the province.As one of the world's most famous attractions, the 57-meter-high (187-foot-high) falls overlapping the border between Canada and the US keep drawing millions of visitors every year. The self-proclaimed "honeymoon capital of the world" is meanwhile more exciting to visit with small children. The bucket-list destination is just over an hour-drive away from Toronto, Canada's largest city.No paved road leads up to northern Manitoba, so a train or plane is needed to reach the tiny town of Churchill, nicknamed "polar bear capital of the world." About 1,000 of Canada's iconic and endangered bears migrate there every year. Tours in special safe vehicles allow visitors to spot them in October and November. In the summer, countless beluga whales also gather in the Hudson Bay's estuary.The Prairies actually cover three provinces: Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta. The grasslands' mesmerizing poetry can best be appreciated on a road trip. The iconic grain elevators that dominated each village for the last century are vanishing sights. Abandoned pioneer settlements have become ghost towns. And then, after kilometers of flatness, the glorious Rocky Mountains appear on the horizon.No matter how many photos you've seen of the Rocky Mountains, nothing beats experiencing their breathtaking grandeur on location. The town of Banff is a good base to explore the vast Banff National Park. Hiking up into the mountains or canoeing on the electric blue waters of Lake Louise (photo), you can expect encounters with wildlife, whether elk, big horn sheep - or perhaps even grizzly bears. Several rankings have named Vancouver "the best place to live in the world." The coastal city has it all: Beyond its incredible glass skyline, it not only boasts a buzzing cultural scene, it's also set amidst a natural paradise allowing to go ski or lay on the city's beaches within the same day. The year-round ski resort Whistler is world famous, and it's just a two-hour drive away. Author: Elizabeth Grenier aw/cmk (Reuters, AP)