Police have captured one of South America's biggest cocaine kingpins, Luiz Carlos da Rocha, Brazilian authorities announced on Saturday.Nicknamed White Head, da Rocha evaded capture for three decades, even undergoing surgery to alter his face, all while running his international drug production and smuggling business, police said.His alleged cocaine network included production labs in the jungles of Bolivia, Colombia and Peru, and continued through to distribution on the continent as well as to the US and Europe.Police said Da Rocha was also one of the main domestic cocaine suppliers to the violent drug traffickers that control large areas of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.Read more: Fugitive Italian mafia boss Vincenzo Macri arrested in BrazilRead more: Murder rate rises in Mexico as drug cartels argue over leadership and profitsSmall planes would carry his cocaine from the jungle labs to remote farms in western Brazil via Venezuelan airspace, police said. From there, they said it would be carried in secret compartments in specially adapted trucks to Brazil's big cities or for shipment abroad.'Legend of drug trafficking'"He is a legend of drug trafficking. I have been in the Federal Police for 32 years and since entering I spoke of the White Head," Rosalvo Ferreira Franco, regional superintendent of the federal police, was quoted as saying by national daily Folha de Sao Paulo."He was the number one trafficker, one of our most-wanted. He had more importance and influence than [North Valley Cartel leader Juan Carlos Ramirez] Abadia or [Red Command leader] Fernandinho Beira-Mar. There was no one above him for us," Elvis Secco, who commanded the operation, was quoted as saying by the paper."He led a normal social life, he was not worried about being arrested, he knew he would not be recognized - he looked about 20 years younger," Secco was quoted as saying, referring to da Rocha's face-altering surgery.Local journalists shared images online that showed his transformation.Brazil is one of the biggest cocaine markets in the world, both in domestic usage and in export. In 2014, national daily O Globo conducted a six-month investigation into the biggest players in the Brazilian cocaine business and found da Rocha was the most important, bringing several tons of cocaine into the country each month.The cannabis plant contains the psychoactive substance tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). It makes people feel euphoric and relaxed and can also alleviate pain. The flowers of infertilized female plants contain particularly high amounts of THC, that's why they are taken for producing marihuana. Some cannabis species do not contain any THC at all and are grown for fiber production.Opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) produces - you guessed it - opium. To harvest it, you simply incise the capsules and let the white latex exude and dry. Opium contains high amounts of morphine, the strongest existing pain medication. A chemical variation of morphine provides the semi-synthetic drug heroin.Mushrooms are chemical artists - some of them even produce psychoactive substances. Among them: this grey-coloured Pluteus salicinus. It grows on wood and contains psilocybin, which causes visual and mental hallucinations similar to LSD. Side effects are nausea and panic attacks.Leaves of the coca plant harbour chemical compounds similar to cocaine. They alleviate pain and act as stimulants. In many countries in Latin America, chewing on raw coca leaves is quite common. It helps tourists deal better with altitude sickness, too. By fermenting and drying the leaves and processing them chemically, cocaine is produced.Angel's trumpets are beautiful to look at but you should refrain from tasting them. All parts of the plant contain alkaloids - chemical compounds with strong effects on the human body. When you eat or smoke the plant, your heart rate will increase and you will start to hallucinate. As with all natural drugs, finding the right dosage is difficult. Deadly accidents occur quite often.On the internet, poisonous Datura plants - also known as thornapples - are advertised as natural drugs as well. Really not a good idea: The plant induces strong hallucinations, sometimes with a complete loss of reality. People tend to hurt themselves severely under its influence.Argyreia nervosa is native to Asia, even though the plant is called Hawaiian baby woodrose. The seeds of this climbing vine contain ergine, a compound similar to LSD. It causes colourful visions and euphoria but also nausea, prickling and psychoses. Overdosing can happen easily as one seed alone already has a strong effect.The peyote cactus in Mexico and Texas is full of mescaline, a hallucinogenic compound that is illegal under the international Convention on Psychotropic Substances. Mescaline alters thinking processes and one's sense of time and self-awareness. The cactus is cut into pieces and eaten or boiled into a tea. The cactus species is now listed on the Red List as vulnerable. Nutmeg in high amounts can act as a drug, since it contains the hallucinogenic compound myristicin. But don't worry: you'll never reach the necessary dosage if you only use nutmeg as a spice. Getting high on nutmeg seems a bad idea anyway, as side effects include headaches, nausea and diarrhea. Yes, it's true: the evergreen kratom tree (Mitragyna speciosa), native to Southeast Asia, incorporates the opioid-like compound mitragynine into its leaves. In traditional medicine, the leaves are chewed to relieve pain, increase appetite and treat diarrhea. But they can also be used to mix drug cocktails.The tobacco plant produces poisonous and addictive chemicals, such as nicotine and other alkaloids, and harbours them inside its leaves. With this poisonous cocktail, the plant tries to ward off animals that might want to eat it. When the leaves are dried and smoked, the chemicals enter the human body - together with many cancerous substances generated by burning tabacco. Author: Brigitte Osterath $100 million fortuneDa Rocha has allegedly amassed $100 million (88 million euros) in personal wealth in the form of vehicles, property and deposits in offshore bank accounts, which authorities said "will be the subject of the second phase of Operation Spectrum."Read more: Boom time for Colombian cocaine, Afghan opioidsRead more: Cybercrime just tip of iceberg in organized criminality, study findsHis alleged right-hand man was also captured separately during the operation in which police said 150 agents carried out 24 raids and seized about $10 million worth of luxury cars, aircraft, farms and other property. In one house, police found $2 million in cash in suitcases.When narcotics police homed in on their suspect in Mato Grosso, agents studied "photographic data with the old facial characteristics of Luiz Carlos da Rocha and the current identity photograph of Vitor Luiz de Moraes, and concluded that Luiz Carlos da Rocha and Vitor Luiz are the same person."While ruthless drug dealers are a highly visible presence in Brazil's favelas, lucrative wholesale businesses are largely hidden.Da Rocha faces more than 50 years in jail for various crimes. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1Jau3