Welcome to DW's live coverage of former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl's funeral. - World leaders have gathered at the European Parliament in Strasbourg to honor Germany's longest-serving chancellor.- Kohl's coffin was set to be transported to Ludwigshafen, his town of birth, before being buried in the nearby town of Speyer. - Kohl, who served as chancellor for 16 years from 1982 to 1998, died on June 16 at his Oggersheim home near Ludwigshafen, aged 87. All updates in Central European Summer Time (CEST)12:55 Guests are now beginning to leave the chamber, as well. We'll be back with more live updates when commemorations for Helmut Kohl begin in his hometown of Ludwigshafen later today. 12:50 The coffin, draped in the blue and yellow-starred flag of the European Union, is being carried out of the chamber as the orchestra plays Beethoven's 7th. It will be flown by helicopter to the late-Chancellor's home town of Ludwigshafen.12:45 The Strasbourg University Orchestra ends the ceremony with a rendition of the German national anthem, Song of Germany by Joseph Haydn, and the European national anthem, Ode to Joy, by Beethoven. I didn't need the help of our classical music expert this time around.Read more: Helmut Kohl's funeral: a musical guide12:30 German Chancellor Merkel is up next.A child of communist East Germany, Merkel focused a large part of her speech praising Kohl for pushing forward German reunification at a time other lawmakers on both sides of the Berlin wall still expressed doubt. Merkel, who entered German politics in the early 1990s as Kohl's protege, admitted that her life would be "entirely different" if it weren't for the late chancellor. "Without Helmut Kohl, the lives of millions of people who lived behind the Wall until 1990 would have been completely different - of course my own as well," she said. The chancellor also took the chance to pay a very personal tribute to Kohl. "Dear Chancellor Helmut, you played a decisive role in the fact that I am standing here now," she said. "Thank you for the chances you gave me... I honor you and your memory with gratitude and humility."Merkel also expressed her condolences to Kohl's widow, Maike Kohl-Richter. The gesture was widely seen as a show of truce amid reports in the German media that Kohl-Richter had tried to prevent Merkel from speaking at the memorial service. 12:20 French President Emmanuel Macron is speaking now. Before honoring Helmut Kohl, he takes the opportunity to commemorate Simone Veil, the famed French lawmaker, European Parliamentarian and holocaust survivor, who died on Friday.On Kohl, Macron said that the late-German chancellor laid the foundations for today's Europe, along with his French counterpart, Francois Mitterrand.Read more: It's cool to be pro-EU with popular French President Emmanuel MacronSpeaking in a city that historically has changed hands between France and Germany, the French president stressed the importance of Franco-German relations and friendship in his speech. Kohl and Mitterrand "did not forget the tragic experiences of their generation" and worked towards ensuring "that people who once fought each other became bound by friendship," he said.As one of the newest and youngest European heads of state, Macron also spoke about rekindling the European project. "History will judge us and it will judge what we did to maintain the bridges that Helmut Kohl built," the French president said, adding that all today's European leaders should look up to Kohl as a role model. "For my generation, Helmut Kohl is already part and parcel of Europe's history," Macron said. "Without that life experience we wouldn't be here, we could not be doing what we are doing ... those were bold, courageous, historic acts."12:15 The Strasbourg University orchestra is performing again. Our resident music expert tells us that they are performing Franz Schubert's Andante from the A minor string quartet. 12:10 Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev is speaking now. He said that Germany and Russia know all too well the value of peace and the devastation that can be caused by war. Kohl, he said, worked tirelessly to guarantee that peace.Medvedev acknowledged that work still remains to be done, but stressed that the value of unity was as evident as ever.In Russia, we'll remember him as our friend -- a wise and sincere person," Medvedev said.12:00 Former President Bill Clinton is addressing the chamber now, and appears to be speaking without a script. Addressing the former state actors in particular, Clinton said that they were all in Strasbourg to honor Kohl because the former chancellor gave them all a chance to be part of something "bigger than ourselves, bigger than our terms in office and bigger than our fleeting careers.""He wanted to create a world where nobody dominated over anybody else," Clinton said. "You did well to achieve that during your lifetime and those of us who experienced it love you for it."His impassioned ad-lib speech earns a huge round of applause.11:50 Felipe Gonzalez, the former prime minister of Spain, takes to the podium to honor Kohl, who "always spoke of a European Germany and never of a German Europe" and played a central role in integrating Spain into the European Union.Read more: 'Cultural sovereign' Helmut Kohl built an unlikely legacy11:45 Delegates are being shown a special film highlighting Kohl's greatest achievements. You can watch the film below in a tweet sent out by the European Commission. 11:40 European Council President Donald Tusk is the next delegate to honor the former German chancellor.Tusk pointed out that Kohl was on a state visit to the Polish capital of Warsaw when news first broke that the Berlin wall was coming down. The first plans of a united Germany and a united Europe were therefore born in Poland, he said. The former Polish Prime Minisiter also praised Kohl for putting the famous words of German author Thomas Mann into practice: "We want a European Germany, not a German Europe."Read more: Economic issues 'never a priority' for ex-German Chancellor Helmut Kohl11:30 European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker is speaking next, "not as a politician, but as a friend," he says. Juncker described Kohl as a "German and European patriot" who "contributed more than anyone to bring out continent back together."The Commission President recalled an EU meeting with Kohl in Luxembourg in 1997, back when Juncker was the prime minister of the small Duchy. It was at that meeting when the first plans to expand the European bloc to east and south were drafted. The accession of news states, particularly the former Soviet states, brought the chancellor to tears of joy, Juncker said. Juncker finished his speech with a joking message to Kohl: "Dear Helmut, you are in heaven now. Promise me that you won't set up a club for the German Christian Democrats there - you've done enough... May you rest in eternal peace." Juncker was the first to advocate a European ceremony in Kohl's honor, a proposal that quickly received the backing of leaders across Europe. 11:20 Antonio Tajani, the President of the European Parliament, is the first delegate to speak at the ceremony. Tajani described Kohl as a "political giant" and the "protagonist of unifying our continent."Tajani also said that Kohl was the champion of a generation that witnessed the suffering of World War II and strived to heal the wounds of war in Europe. The Italian also paid tribute to Simone Veil, the revered French politician and holocaust survivor, who passed away on Friday, aged 89. Like Tajani, Veil also headed the European Parliament back in 1979 for three terms. Read more: Simone Veil, 'the best of France,' dies11:00 The ceremony is about to start with a performance of Beethoven by the Orchestra of Strasbourg University.10:30 Guests are being greeted by European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker (out of shot) European Parliament president Antonio Tajani (center), and European Council President Donald Tusk (right), as they arrive at the ceremony.10:15 DW's Brussels correspondent is at the ceremony. You can follow him on Twitter at @RiegertBernd for more live updates. 10:00 World leaders from past and present have begun arriving at the European Parliament in Strasbourg to honor and say farewells to Helmut Kohl. German Chancellor Angela Merkel, European Council President Donald Tusk and former President Bill Clinton are all scheduled to speak at the so-called European Ceremony of Honor, the first such ceremony of its kind. All European leaders are scheduled to attend the service, as well as Israeli Prime Minster Benjamin Netanyahu.