A suicide attacker set off an explosion in Tahrir Square in downtown Damascus on Sunday, killing at least 20 people and injuring dozens more, reported state news agency SANA. The Syrian foreign ministry informed the United Nations of the updated death toll in a letter, SANA said.Syria's third largest city has been cleared of armed opposition for the first time since 2011. Once the center of the revolt against the Assad regime, Homs' clearance marks a major shift in the balance of forces. (21.05.2017) The relocation comes after a months' long bombing campaign by the Syrian military, with support from Russia and Iran. It's the last rebel stronghold in the capital, with many people being sent north to Idlib province. (14.05.2017) Syria's government has dismissed the idea of UN peacekeepers patrolling four safe zones as part of a recently brokered deal. Damascus also said it is "premature" to talk about whether the deal will succeed. (08.05.2017) More than a thousand rebels and others have left the Barzeh neighborhood of Damascus as part of a "reconciliation" deal. Fighters and civilians have been granted safe passage, allowing the government to retake control. (29.05.2017) "The terrorist bombings killed and wounded several civilians and caused physical damage to the area," a senior police representative told the official SANA news agency. Authorities believed that the terrorists were trying to target busy areas as citizens returned to work after the Eid al-Fitr holiday.The bomber was in one of three cars being pursued by authorities. The other two were intercepted by security services on the road toward the airport in the southeast of the city. While reports stated that the second two car bombs did detonate, there were no immediate reports of casualties.Read: Relentless bombing forces Syrian rebels and civilians from strongholdOne resident told French news agency AFP that he had seen Red Crescent volunteers treating wounded soldiers, as well as two burned-out cars and a damaged security checkpoint."The specialized agencies have thwarted the terrorist plot that targeted to hit populous places in order to cause the highest possible casualties," said Syrian Minister of Local Administration Hussein Makhlouf, without elaborating further.While the fighting in the capital has been less intense than in flashpoints like Aleppo and Homs, there has been ongoing fighting in the east of the city between rebels and regime troops, as well as sporadic attacks on government targets by Islamist terrorists. Suicide bombings on the outskirts of the city have increased in recent months, including an attack on a courthouse and restaurant in March that killed 32 people. That incident was claimed by the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) terrorist group.Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.In April the US launched a missile strike against a Syrian air-base in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on civilians. The attacked marked a sharp turn-around in US Syrian policy, with President Donald Trump long advocating against direct action against the Syrian regime.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has aided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher es/rc (AP, AFP, Reuters)