Austria's defense minister, Peter Doskozil, said on Monday that Vienna would be ready to quickly impose controls on its border with Italy, if the influx of migrants crossing the Mediterranean into Europe does not abate.Speaking to the online edition of Austria's daily "Krone," Doskozil said he expected "that very soon border controls will be activated and that an assistance deployment (by the military) will be requested."Read more: Italy warns of social upheaval as UN sees more migrant arrivals from LibyaThe move, he added, "was indefensible if the inflow into Italy does not ease." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1IpWODoskozil's remarks came after the United Nations published a study on Monday revealing that so far this year more than 85,000 migrants had reached Italy after crossing the Mediterranean - a 20 percent increase compared to same period last year. That influx was only likely to increase, according to the UN."This is not sustainable," the UNHCR'S special envoy for the central Mediterranean, Vincent Cochetel, said. "We need to have other countries joining Italy and sharing that responsibility."Migration likely to be key election issueDoskozil's center-left Social Democratic Party also appears to be toughening its stance on migration ahead of Austria's early elections in August.Parties have scattered over Austria's rising anti-immigration sentiment, while the country's far-right Austrian Freedom Party is projected to poll well in August and potentially even emerge as the most popular party.Read more: Fear of FP driving Austria to the right?Austria found itself at the center of Europe's migrant crisis in 2015, namely because it was the first western European country migrants travelling from the Middle East along the Balkan route arrived in. It subsequently imposed controls on its borders with its eastern neighbors, Slovenia and Hungary, as well as along the Brenner Pass with Italy in the southern Tyrol region. dm/bw (AFP, Krone)A journey combined with misery as well as dangers for the body and the soul: In their escape from war and suffering, hundreds of thousands of people, mostly from Syria, traveled to Greece from Turkey in 2015 and 2016. There are still around 10,000 people stranded on the islands of Lesbos, Chios and Samos. More than 6,000 new arrivals were recorded this year from January to May.In 2015 and 2016, more than a million people tried to reach Western Europe from Greece or Turkey over the Balkan route - through Macedonia, Serbia and Hungary. The stream of refugees stopped only when the route was officially closed and many countries sealed their borders. Today, most refugees opt for the dangerous Mediterranean route from Libya to Europe.This picture shook the world. The body of three-year-old Aylan Kurdi from Syria washed up on a beach in Turkey in September 2015. The photograph was widely circulated in social networks and became a symbol of the refugee crisis. Europe could not look away anymore.Last-minute rush: Thousands of refugees tried to get into overcrowded buses and trains in Croatia after it became known that the route through Europe would not remain open for long. In October 2015, Hungary closed its borders and installed container camps, where refugees would be kept for the duration of their asylum process.A Hungarian journalist caused uproar in September 2015 after she tripped a Syrian man who was trying to run from the police at Roszke, near the Hungarian border with Serbia. At the peak of the crisis, the tone against refugees became coarser. In Germany, attacks on refugee homes increased.The official closure of the Balkan route in March 2016 led to tumultuous scenes at border crossings. Thousands of refugees were stranded and there were reports of brutal violence. Many tried to circumvent border crossings, like these refugees at the Greek-Macedonian border shortly after borders were closed.A child covered in blood and dust: the photograph of five-year-old Omran shocked the public when it was released in 2016. It became an allegory of the horror of the Syrian civil war and the suffering of the Syrian people. One year later, new pictures of the boy circulated on the internet, showing him much happier. Assad supporters say the picture last year was planted for propaganda purposes.A Syrian man carries his daughter in the rain at the Greek-Macedonian border in Idomeni. He hopes for security for his family in Europe. According to the Dublin regulation, asylum can be applied only in the country where the refugee first entered Europe. Many who travel further on are sent back. Above all, Greece and Italy carry the largest burden.Germany remains the top destination, although the refugee and asylum policy in Germany has become more restrictive following the massive influx. No country in Europe has taken in as many refugees as Germany, which took in 1.2 million since the influx began in 2015. Chancellor Angela Merkel was an icon for many of the newcomers.In France's north, authorities clean up the infamous "jungle" in Calais. The camp caught fire during the evacuation in October 2016. Around 6,500 residents were distributed among other shelters in France. Half a year later, aid organizations reported many minor refugees living as homeless people around Calais.NGO and government rescue ships are constantly on the lookout for migrant boats in distress. Despite extreme danger during their voyage, many refugees, fleeing poverty or conflict in the home countries, expect to find a better future in Europe. The overcrowded boats and rubber dinghies often capsize. In 2017 alone, 1,800 people died in the crossing. In 2016, 5,000 people lost their lives.Hundreds of thousands of refugees from Sub Saharan Africa and the Middle East wait in Libyan detention camps to cross the Mediterranean. Human smugglers and traffickers control the business. The conditions in the camps are reportedly catastrophic, human rights organizations say. Eyewitnesses report of slavery and forced prostitution. Still, the inmates never give up the dream of coming to Europe. Author: Charlotte Hauswedell