Underlining just how sour relations between Germany and Turkey had become, a German foreign ministry official warned Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Monday against even appearing at a Turkish consulate or speaking via web video link, when he arrives in Germany later this week for the G20 summit.Last week, the German government denied a request from Ankara to allow Erdogan to address Germany's Turkish community. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ffB9Responding to suspected rumors that the Turkish president would defy the German government, Martin Schaefer said that doing so "would be an affront to the clearly expressed will of the government and a violation of German sovereignty."Schaefer said that, while he couldn't impose an outright on Erdogan speaking at a Turkish consulate, the government had options for influencing such actions.Germany restricts political campaigns by foreign officialsBerlin's rejection came onthe back a new law introduced last week that bans non-EU leaders from campaigning on German soil within three months of polls in their country. Foreign officials will also need to file a request with the German government to hold any kind of political event in the country.The new law was introduced after a handful of Turkish politicians campaigned in Germany ahead of a referendum vote in April expanding Erdogan's powers. Turkish residents in Germany were allowed to take part in the vote.However, a number of local German authorities blocked Turkish lawmakers from speaking, citing security concerns. The move left Erdogan infuriated by what he described as "Nazi era tactics."Read more: Germany tells Erdogan's bodyguards to stay away from Hamburg G20The Turkish president is currently pushing a referendum to reintroduce the death penalty in Turkey. In this instance, Germany has said that its residents will not be allowed to participate in the controversial vote. The European Union has also warned that any such referendum would effectively end its bid to join the bloc.Unveiling their manifesto ahead of September's federal election, German Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats, along with their Bavarian sister party, said on Monday that they rejected full Turkish membership to the EU. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2a43ETurkey bemoans speaking banAnkara decried the German government's decision to reject Erdogan's speaking request on Monday. The President's spokesman accused Berlin of using "hostility towards Erdogan as way of making political gains" ahead of September's federal election.Spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said that even if the President wasn't able to see his compatriots this week, "we will always be with them, in another place, at a different time and through some other means.Read more: Don't believe 'conspiracy theory' Germany aims to punish Turkey, says Foreign Minister Sigmar GabrielTurkey's Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmus, also accused Germany of trying to sour tensions between the two countries. "Unfortuantely, some German lawmakers use animosity towards Turkey and especially animosity towards Erdogan for their own internal politics.Berlin and Ankara have clashed on a number of other issues in the past year, including the detention of a German-Turkish journalist and the decision to refuse German delegates from visiting Bundeswehr troops stationed at a Turkish airbase.dm/bw (Reuters, dpa, AFP)During last month s coup attempt, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called on supporters to help defeat military personnel trying to overthrow his ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP). Having thwarted the attempt and crediting much his success to loyalists who filled the street, Erdogan has since asked followers to come out for nightly "Democracy Watch" rallies.On Sunday, the final rallies were held, with a crowd of 2 million in Istanbul and about 10,000 in Ankara. Nearly 80 cities hosted demonstrations in support of Erdogan s AKP, which is Turkey s first party with Islamic leanings to survive a military coup. Supporters viewed the victory as a triumph over the republic s cyclical coups and secular constitution.Speaking from Istanbul, Erdogan promised to "rebuild Turkey from scratch" and the mood was optimistic among supporters. Lale Alici, (not pictured) an Ankara-based real estate agent who has attended every rally since the coup attempt, said: "When the purges are finished, Turkey will accelerate its development because those who infiltrated our government will no longer be a burden on our country."Atalay, (not pictured) an interior designer who didn t give his full name, said he supported Erdogan because he s bringing Turkey to the world stage. "Erdogan s telling the world we re here and we ll be a big power," he said. "Even if you don t like it, you ll have to accept it. The world s bigger than the [seven countries in the G7.]"Though many attending Sunday s rallies said they were defending democracy, opponents noted the country s third-largest political party, the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), was not allowed at the events. "As a Kurd, I can t go to these rallies because I don t feel safe," said Havva Ozcan, (not pictured) co-chair of Tuhad-Fed, a prisoners' rights organization. "Not everyone s welcome."Ozcan also said the rallies received full government support, while other forms of protest have been largely banned. Attendees were not only given free water and food, but the entire public transportation systems in Ankara and Istanbul have been free over the last three weeks to encourage mass mobilization."We are seeing a temporary socialism in Turkey," Ozcan said.Normally blocked during national emergencies, social media has taken on a prominent place since the coup attempt. From Erdogan s FaceTime speech to Periscope videos portraying violence against civilians, opponents complained the government allowed uninterrupted access to social media sites only because they proved advantageous. Turkish service providers also gave customers free data packages.Local businesses have also been hit hard, with some bars in the central Ankara seeing fewer customers since the rallies began. "Business has been affected, of course, but this about much more than business," said Can, a bar manager in Kizilay who only gave his first name. "These rallies are a sign that worse things will come soon."Some have viewed the rallies as a way for the AKP to strengthen its support base. Speaking on condition of anonymity, Mohammed, a Syrian refugee who witnessed the Egyptian coup and is now living in Turkey, said the rallies were "training for Erdogan s followers" and that "soon he may ask them to organize against another movement he doesn t like."From Ankara s Kizilay Square (pictured above after the coup night) to Istanbul s Bosporus Bridge, prominent sites throughout Turkey have been renamed to honor those who lost their lives during the coup attempt. Now people travelling from the European side of Istanbul to the Asian side will cross the "The Martyrs' of July 15th" bridge. Author: Diego Cupolo, Ankara