As recently as in January this year, US President Donald Trump tweeted that North Korea would never be allowed to acquire an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) capability. But just six months later, it has already happened. The latest North Korean missile, fired on Tuesday, apparently had a range of about 8,000 kilometers and could carry one nuclear warhead. With the confirmation that the rocket was in fact an ICBM, North Korea gained entry into an exclusive club of powers that could launch missiles capable of reaching American soil.Militarily speaking, the new North Korean missile is of little significance. It uses a liquid propellant and flies so slowly that it can be easily knocked out by an anti-missile defense system. Doubts also abound about its reliability and precision.Fritz: 'Kim's reclusive regime in Pyongyang has now effectively become unassailable'North Korean scientists definitely need a lot more time to bring about the improvements needed to turn it into a dependable weapon for their leader Kim Jong Un.Kim's regime unassailable For Kim, the main purpose of these long-range missiles is their deterrent potential. His reclusive regime in Pyongyang has now effectively become unassailable, as it now possesses the capability to launch atomic weapons at the US and cause incalculable consequences.This ability strengthens Kim's hand in any negotiations with the outside world and allows him to pursue his political goals such as concluding a peace agreement and the lifting of the UN-imposed sanctions on his country.It appears paradoxical, but the advancement of North Korea's missile capabilities has shaken the stalemate that had long characterized the situation on the Korean Peninsula.Until the latest test, the North's weapons had only threatened its neighbors South Korea and Japan.The US offered the two countries protection by keeping them under its nuclear umbrella, but otherwise Washington played a spectator role watching from afar the tensions and developments in the region. Successive American administrations have responded to North Korean provocations in a knee-jerk and stereotypical manner. But that won't work any longer as the US itself can now become the target of Pyongyang's military wrath.US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson confirmed Tuesday that North Korea test launched an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) for the first time. Testing an ICBM marks a major military achievement for Pyongyang and a serious escalation of tensions with the United States and its allies in the region, particularly South Korea and Japan.Defense experts say the ICBM could reach as far as the US states of Alaska and Hawaii, but questions remain over whether North Korea can field an ICBM capable of carrying a nuclear warhead on its cone that could survive reentry into earth's atmosphere. However, North Korean state media said Wednesday the ICBM was capable of carrying a "large, heavy nuclear warhead."The ICBM is believed to be a step forward in the North's nuclear program. Despite pressure from the international community, Pyongyang has made no secret of its nuclear ambitions. Alongside its ritual ballistic missile tests, North Korea has conducted nuclear tests on five occasions, two of which in 2016. The country claimed that the last warhead it tested could be attached to a rocket. Apart from a developing missile and nuclear program, North Korea has a powerful army with 700,000 active troops and another 4.5 million in the reserves. It can call upon almost a quarter of its population to serve in the army at any given time. The North's bloated army is believed to outnumber its southern neighbor's by two-to-one.According to the 2017 Global Firepower Index, the North has, as part of a far-reaching arsenal, 458 fighter aircraft, 5,025 combat tanks, 76 submarines, and 5,200,000 total military personnel. The picture above from 2013 shows leader Kim Jong Un ordering strategic rocket forces to be on standby to strike US and South Korean targets at any time.Alongside the United States, Pyongyang views its neighbors South Korea and Japan as its two other main enemies. North Korea has used US military exercises in the region as means of galvanizing its people, claiming that the exercises are dress rehearsals for an impending invasion.Every year, hundreds of thousands of soldiers and citizens role through the streets of the capital Pyongyang to take part in the North's military parades. Preparations for the rallies often begin months in advance and are usually held on an important anniversary of the party or Kim Jong Un's family.Responding to the ICBM provocation with a show of force, the US and South Korean troops on Wednesday conducted "deep strike" precision missile drills using Army Tactical Missile System (ATACMS) and the Republic of Korea's Hyunmoo Missile II. In April, the US sent its Carl Vinson aircraft carrier towards the Korean Peninsula, saying it was taking prudent measures against the North.More pressure on ChinaAt the moment it looks as if there will be a repeat of the usual cycle of events that occur every time North Korea conducts a test. The US says it wants to tighten international sanctions and prod countries like China and others for more support to rein in Pyongyang.Washington might also increase direct pressure on Beijing in a bid to convince the Chinese leadership to totally abandon the North Korean regime.But when one looks at Trump's tweets on North Korea, one gets the impression that he might be short on patience to wait for this isolation strategy to work and produce concrete results. As Trump's domestic reforms agenda remains stuck, he might be tempted to score points on the foreign policy arena. One option would be to authorize airstrikes against military targets in North Korea.But with that tactic, the US would risk a dangerous escalation where the North retaliates by, for example, attacking the South Korean capital Seoul, a vibrant metropolis that's home to millions of people. South Korea and Japan therefore have to make it clear to the US leader that this strategy is too risky. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fwEpMoratorium more attractiveCompared to the military option, the proposal for a moratorium put forward by Russia and China appears more attractive. A suspension of nuclear and missile tests by North Korea in exchange for a halt to joint military drills by the US and South Korea would first reduce the tensions and decelerate the pace at which the North is developing its weapons technologies.The pause should then be utilized by the various parties to the conflict to find ways to get back to the negotiating table.But it's not possible to turn the clock backward. North Korea is not going to give up its status as a nuclear weapons state. But the talks could focus on persuading North Korea to freeze its weapons development programs in return for an easing of the international sanctions and pledges for increased economic cooperation.This path of constructive de-escalation is clearly preferable to a second Korean War.Would you like to add a comment below?The thread will remain open for 24 hours after publication.