Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Pranab Mukherjee launched the new tax early Saturday by pressing a button during a special midnight session in parliament."With GST, the dream of 'One India, Great India' will come true," Modi said in a speech.The single GST - or Goods and Services Tax - is expected to change the cost of most products in India and make it easier to do business. It will replace a complicated mix of 500 types of state and federal tax, Modi said. "GST is a simple, transparent system which prevents generation of blackmoney and curbs corruption. The system gives opportunity to honesty and people who do honest business."Opposition boycottThe midnight ceremony was also attended by India's central bank chief, a former prime minister and major company executives. Several parties including the main opposition Congress Party, however, opted to stay away.Businesses were ordered in January to adopt or upgrade computer systems in order to comply with the new tax regime, which requires monthly tax returns to be filed online. But the opposition argued millions of traders hadn't had enough time to prepare for such a massive shift. They had urged the government to postpone implementing the new system to give businesses a chance to recover from Modi's snap decision late last year to remove 86 percent of the currency in circulation. The move caused chaos within the country's cash-dependent economy and hurt industries like construction and tourism. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fhcUAnother concern is that many entrepreneurs participating in India's $2 trillion (1.75 trillion euros) economy aren't computer literate and rely solely on handwritten ledgers.Sweeping changeIndia's Chief Economic Adviser Arvind Subramanian told reporters that while some "hurdles" were inevitable, most problems would be resolved within the next two months.The tax reform had been on the cards for more than a decade, but years of debate stopped it from progressing further. The idea had been proposed by the Congress Party before it lost power three years ago. At the time, Modi and his Bharatya Janata Party had been firmly against the move. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fTTTThe government published a 213-page list of rates last month showing almost every item for sale in India. Under the GST system, products from shampoo to tea to cars will all be taxed within four broad categories - at rates of 5 percent, 12 percent, 18 percent or 28 percent. There are also a number of exemptions, including basic staples like fresh vegetables and milk.nm/kl (Reuters, AP) 