Italy is "playing its part" in taking in rescued migrants and offering protection to those in need, UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi said Saturday, but "these efforts must be continued and strengthened. This cannot be an Italian problem alone.""What is happening in front of our eyes in Italy is an unfolding tragedy," Grandi said in a statement."In the course of last weekend, 12,600 migrants and refugees arrived on its shores, and an estimated 2,030 have lost their lives in the Mediterranean since the beginning of the year."Read more: Italy is running out of patience Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fbWWEurope has to get fully involved through an "urgent distribution system" of migrants and should widen legal channels so that migrants can be admitted, Grandi said.On Thursday, the EU's migration commissioner, Dimitris Avramopoulos, promised more financial support for Italy and urged member states to demonstrate greater solidarity. Tackling the causesGrandi also called for greater international efforts to tackle the causes of migration, to protect people and to fight trafficking.Since the beginning of the year, 83,650 people have reached Italy by sea, an increase of nearly 20 percent compared to the same period last year, according to UN figures.Many of the migrants need health care and support, including a large number of unaccompanied children and victims of sexual violence. The number of migrant children arriving alone doubled between 2015 and 2016, reaching 25,846 at the end of last year.The interior ministers of France, Germany and Italy are meeting in Paris on Sunday to discuss a "coordinated approach" to provide support for Italy.So far in 2017, Italy has received 85 percent of informal migration to Europe. Most of the new arrivals come from Islamic backgrounds and for many it s their first Ramadan away from home. In observing the holy month abroad, many are experiencing cultural differences, while finding solace in existing Muslim institutions like Catania s Mosque of Mercy Masjid Ar-Rahmah, pictured above.Ramadan is observed by fasting in daylight hours, but is also a time for social cohesion in Muslim societies. Upon arriving from Nigeria, Galadima, 16, was struck by the contrasts. "The most surprising thing about Europe is that you can see the same people in the streets for months and not know their names," he said. "This is very strange."For many Muslims new to Europe, the biggest difference in observing Ramadan is not so much cultural, but geographical. Greater distance from the equator means longer daylight hours in the summer and, as a result, longer fasting hours. "I never thought someone could fast from 3 a.m. to 8 p.m.," said Galadima. "Now I m fasting all day and I am surprising myself."Migrants from sub-Saharan nations and eastern Africa have traditionally arrived in Italy via smuggling routes in Libya. In stark contrast to recent trends, Bangladeshi nationals are now also using the route in rising numbers, according to the Italian interior ministry.In response to the diversity of migrants arriving in Sicily, Ismail Bouchnafa, imam of the Mosque of Mercy Masjid Ar-Rahmah, has stocked his shelves with Qurans translated into several languages. "People from all over the world come to pray here," said Bouchnafa, originally of Moroccan descent. "We manage because we are all here for the same reason.""Our mosque is growing in attendance numbers, but Sicily is a place of passage. Few migrants stay here because there s no work. They move on," Bouchnafa continued. "There are so many things we want to do to help migrants in their journeys, but there s little time and little funding usually, we try to find shelter for the homeless ones.""It s Ramadan when I m in the mosque, but in the street, it s just another day," said Khan, 28, a Pakistani welder not pictured above. "This is a very different culture from ours. Italy s not Islamic. I am not Christian. But it doesn t matter as long as we can treat each other with good manners and respect."Traditional shops in southern Italy close at midday for a lunch break or "siesta," yet Bangladeshi store owners have made a living by keeping long working hours and the same applies while they fast. "We stay open even if we are tired," said Momin Mattubbar, 25, a Bangladeshi who arrived eight months ago. "It s not difficult, this is our religion."For many migrants, Ramadan is also synonymous with certain dishes from their home countries. Experiencing Ramadan abroad means trying new foods, often with mixed results. "[Africans] are used to chicken and rice," said Ismail Jammeh, a cultural mediator. "They don t know what a meatball is, or what pasta is. Even when I first came, I didn t like pasta.""In the days of Ramadan, we are looking back at our countries and feel very alone," said Mala, a teenager who recently arrived via Libya. "It is my first Ramadan without my family. We are already foreigners in Italy and we are stressed in this new land, but to be without our families is the hardest part." Author: Diego Cupolo (Sicily) jbh/cmk (AFP, UN)