A delegation led by Britain's former minister for the City of London Mark Hoban will meet European Union diplomats this week to discuss the financial district's future after the UK exits the EU, the Financial Times reported on Monday.The paper said Hoban would deliver a secret blueprint for a post-Brexit free-trade deal on financial services, amid concerns that one of the major drivers of the UK economy may be severely weakened by the country's impending divorce.The Associated Press later reported that the talks would take place on Wednesday. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fkAzLondon is currently ranked the number one financial center in the world by the Global Financial Centers Index, beating New York, Hong Kong, Singapore and Tokyo.London's status vulnerableBut fears that the British government is preparing for a so-called "hard Brexit," where Britain leaves the EU's single market and customs union, could see London lose its attractiveness as an investment hub. Already several large banks are planning to move staff to other EU financial centers including Frankfurt and Paris.Read more: Britain set to trigger pullout from fishing deal as it heads toward BrexitHoban, who now works as a consultant, has spent months working on the blueprint, the FT said, amid concerns that London's financial services industry may lose its edge over other financial centers. The loss of so-called passporting rights, which allows London-based institutions to offer services to clients in the 27 remaining EU states (EU27) under looser British regulations, has helped the UK capital maintain its dominance.As Britain has just two years to negotiate its divorce and future relationship with the rest of Europe, there are worries that the deadline could be reached before the full terms of a deal can be agreed to retain easy access to EU markets. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2fauLMutual accessHoban's plan would give financial groups from the UK and EU27 "mutual access" to operate in each other's markets without barriers, the paper reported.Read more: Diplomats ponder whether UK may U-turn on BrexitThe FT said the talks between the City of London delegation and EU envoys would take place independently of the British government's negotiations. The paper cited three officials close to the project as saying that some government officials had given unofficial support for the arrangement.The talks come despite the EU insisting it would not discuss Britain's future relationship until citizens' rights and the estimated 100 billion euro divorce bill were finalized.British Prime Minister Theresa May has also stressed that the UK negotiating delegation should not be undermined in their attempts to get the best possible future deal.Government too narrowThe FT said the City's own blueprint revealed how worried finance chiefs are that the British government is too focused on narrow issues related to Brexit.Highlighting the vulnerable position London finds itself in post-Brexit, the paper reported that the UK financial center provides three-quarters of EU hedging activities and foreign exchange, and half of the bloc's lending and securities transactions. Other EU financial hubs are eager to swipe a major share of these services from London.Prior to June's UK election, Prime Minister Theresa May had signaled that the UK would leave the European single market, the bloc's free trading area. However, a weaker post-election Tory government has been forced to re-think its stance. For Brussels, meanwhile, access to the single market means accepting continued movement of labor into the UK from the EU 27 - no ifs, no buts.The EU has said it wants the rights of EU citizens in the UK to be the "first priority" of Brexit negotiations. Lead EU negotiator Michel Barnier has said there will be no discussions before all member states were assured their citizens in the UK would be treated "properly and humanely." Some 3 million EU nationals live in the UK, while around 1.1 million British ex-pats live on the continent.Theresa May has vowed to control immigration from Europe after Brexit. However, UK lawmakers are wary that a sharp drop in immigration will lead to shortfalls in key sectors, including health, social care and construction. Brussels insists that the UK must continue to accept free movement if it wants to maintain access to the single market.Of course ongoing security cooperation between the UK and EU is in everyone's interest. That point has been further stressed by both sides in the wake of June's terror attack in London. However, access to programs such as Europol and the European Arrest Warrant process currently depend on compliance with EU laws. May's Great Repeal Bill meanwhile seeks to bring EU laws on to the UK statute book.Brussels is insisting that the UK continue paying into the EU budget to cover pension liabilities, and committed spending to EU loans and projects. The UK finds itself in a tough position: its future relationship could largely depend on the bill being settled, although it's unlikely to sit well with Leave voters who were promised the UK would stop sending money to Brussels.May had vowed to end the European Court of Justice's jurisdiction in the UK. However, the UK government has since softened its approach. May's Great Repeal Bill would mean UK companies can align rules governing the European partners. Brussels meanwhile, says it wants to the ECJ to guarantee the well-treatment of EU citizens in the UK beyond Brexit.How Ireland will look post-Brexit could be one of the most sensitive subject of the upcoming talks. Both sides have expressed their desire to avoid the return of a hard border between the Republic and Northern Ireland. However, May's failed election gamble put her in a governing coalition with the North's nationalist Democratic Union Party, a party with historically adverse ties to the Republic. Author: David Martin