Filipino boxer Manny Pacquiao succumbed to a surprise defeat on Sunday in his bout with Australian outsider Jeff Horn.Pacquiao appeared to land far more punches than his rival, packaged as "the boxing schoolteacher" by promoters. But - in one of the biggest upsets in recent boxing history - judges awarded the WBO welterweight title win to Horn in a unanimous points-decision of 117-111, 115-113, 115-113.Read: McGregor and Mayweather agree to August 'super fight' in Las VegasHorn, a 29-year-old former schoolteacher who turned professional boxer after reaching the Olympic quarterfinals, applied much of the pressure in the early rounds.Pacquiao needed treatment during the 6th and 7th rounds after sustaining a cut on his headA star is born?The 38-year-old Pacquiao suffered a cut above the right eye in round two, and appeared knocked off his stride by the Australian's aggressive approach. Pacquiao - a senator in the upper house of the Congress of the Philippines - battled back and dominated later on, but it was not enough.Two giants of the ring in different sports will go head-to-head in a long-waited showdown this August. The light middleweight fight in Las Vegas is expected to rake in millions and be the richest in history. (15.06.2017) Germany's professional boxing scene has been struggling for some time. For many, veteran Wladimir Klitschko is the last active boxer they really know. When he hangs up his gloves, it's unclear who can pick up the torch. (28.04.2017) "A star has been born," declared the announcer, after Horn was named winner of what has been dubbed the "Battle of Brisbane." The fight took place before a crowd of some 50,000 people at the Suncorp Stadium, in Horn's hometown."I'm so happy, I can't explain my feelings," Horn said at ringside. "I've just believed since I was very young that I could do this."Read: German pro-boxing on the ropesPacquiao's long-time trainer Freddie Roach had predicted the fight would be short and sweet. After the match, Pacquiao conceded gracefully. "Very tough. I didn't expect that tough," Pacquiao said. "It's okay, it's part of the game. That's the decision of the judges, I respect that."Magnus Carlsen (right) is a genius. The Norwegian is one of the best chess players of all time, but Russian Sergey Karjakin nearly defeated him at the 2016 World Championship. "It was the hardest World Championship for me so far," said Carlsen. The victory came first in the tie-breaker, where the champion held his nerve to claim a 3-1 win in a match that gave chess unprecedented coverage.90,000 watched on in the Camp Nou in Barcelona and a billion joined them on TV to watch one of football's greatest ever games in the 1999 Champions League final. Bayern Munich led 1-0 against Manchester United heading into injury time. Then came a corner, Teddy Sheringham made it 1-1. Another corner, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer (pictured center) made it 2-1 - and broke Bavarian hearts.This match swept everyone off their feet. The 2008 Wimbledon final is one of the greatest sporting battles ever, let alone one of the greatest tennis matches. Rafael Nadal (photo) was two sets down against grass specialist Roger Federer. The Spaniard then battled back and after seemingly endless rallies, Nadal overcame the Swiss 6:4, 6:4, 6:7, 6:7, 9:7 in just under five hours of tennis.Whoever wants success has to want it more than the next competitor. The battle between Michael Schumacher (right) and Damon Hill in Formula One was the perfect example of just that. In the final Grand Prix in Adelaide in 1994, the German closed the door. Both collided and were out of the race. Hill scolded and the headlines read "Cheating Schumi", but Schumacher was champion by one point.The 400 meter final is a battle between eight, but at the 1960 Olympics in Rome it came down to just two. West Germany's Carl Kaufmann (on the floor above) launched an incredible comeback against US sprinter Otis Davis. With Davis comfortably ahead, Kaufmann battled back in the rain before diving over the line. In the end, it was in vain. The photo finish showed Davis a fraction ahead.Two sporting heroes on a level playing field who couldn't stand one another made for one of the greatest sporting battles. Muhammad Ali (left) fought Joe Frazier in 1975 in Manilla for the third time. Their head-to-head record was 1-1 and the third fight was just as exciting. A thrilling, brutal fight demanded everything of both fighters and in the end, Ali claimed victory.In 1980, the Cold War was perhaps at its frostiest. In the midst of political tension and military threat, the US and Soviet Union faced off on the ice of Lake Placid at the Winter Olympics. The Soviet team had won six of the previous seven gold medals, but astoundingly the college amateurs from the US upset the odds and won 4-3, making history in the process.Great tennis matches don't just happen in finals. The Davis Cup relegation match between Boris Becker (right) and John McEnroe was part of tennis history. On a fateful afternoon in July 1987, McEnroe argued and discussed, while Becker answered with coolness and arrogance. It was a game for the stronger mind. Becker won after a breathtaking six hours and 39 minutes, 4:6, 15:13, 8:10, 6:2, 6:2.Like this season's battle between Nico Rosberg and Lewis Hamilton, the 1989 Formula One Championship was a fight between teammates. In the penultimate Grand Prix in Suzuka, McLaren's Alain Prost (right) and Ayrton Senna's fight was on a knife-edge. The two collided, Prost was out of the race and Senna won, but was later disqualified. While the Brazilian raged, Prost later celebrated the title.The Tour de France has never been closer than it was in 1989. Frenchman Laurent Fignon (right), who has sadly since passed, was wearing the yellow jersey on the road to Paris but US rider Greg LeMond stole the yellow off him on the final time trial. After 3,285 kilometers it came down to eight seconds. Author: Joscha Weber rc/shs (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)