Early on Tuesday morning, about four hours after the explosion that shook Manchester Arena following an Ariana Grande concert, British Prime Minister Theresa May released a statement condemning the "terrorist attack." "We are working to establish the full details of what is being treated by the police as an appalling terrorist attack. All our thoughts are with the victims and the families of those who have been affected."Read: Manchester and the world show solidarity with concert attack victimsEarlier, opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn reacted to the "terrible incident" on Twitter, saying his "thoughts are with all those affected." He later posted a longer statement.The two leaders spoke on Tuesday and had agreed to suspend their election campaigns "until further notice following the attacks. National elections are scheduled in Britain for June 8.Britain's Home Secretary Amber Rudd said the blast in Manchester was "a barbaric attack, deliberately targeting some of the most vulnerable in our society - young people and children out at a pop concert."Manchester Mayor Andy Burnham made a statement on Tuesday morning, saying the citzens of Manchester had experienst the "darkest of nights" and were "waking up to the most difficult of dawns."Burnham condemned the "evil act" that took place at the concert, but said "today it will be business as usual, as far as possible, in our great city."The mayor also praised citizens who opened their doors to people fleeing the attack in the immediate aftermath of the explosion. #RoomsForManchester was used on Twitter to provide people with no way of getting home with a place to stay after the explosion.International supportAriana Grande's current tour is scheduled to take her around the world, where several thousand of her fans many of them teenagers and younger are expected to fill concert venues. Statements from leaders around the world joined the chorus of condemnation after the attack.German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Tuesday morning that such an "incomprehensable" attack would only "strengthen our determination to continue working together with our friends in the UK to combat those who plan and carry out such despicable acts."Australia's Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said it was a "brutal attack on young people everywhere in remarks to parliament."This incident, this attack, is especially vile, especially criminal, especially horrific because it appears to have been deliberately directed at teenagers, he said.Grande has five dates scheduled in Australia in September.Canadian Prime Minister tweeted in the hours after the attack to express "shock" on the behalf of his country.Japan's chief cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga, said "if this is a terrorist attack, such abhorrent acts of terrorism cannot be justified for any reason, and Japan firmly condemns such an act of terrorism. "I would like to express my heartfelt condolences to the victims and families of the deceased and my prayers to a swift recovery for the wounded. Japan stands in solidarity with the people of the UK."France's recently elected President, Emmanuel Macron, tweeted "my thoughts are with the British people, the victims and their families. Together we will fight against terrorists."In a statement, the United States Department of Homeland Security said it was "monitoring the situation" and advised Americans in the area to "heed direction from local authorities and maintain security awareness."Chinese President Xi Jinping phoned Queen Elizabeth to offer condolances, and the Prime Minister of India, Narenda Modi, condemned the attack in a Tweet.mz/rt (AP, Reuters)At around 10:30 p.m. local time, at the end of a concert by US pop singer Ariana Grande in Manchester Arena, an explosion shook what witnesses described as the foyer area of the venue where merchandise was being sold. The blast flung people to the ground and shattered glass in the foyer area.After the blast, people began streaming out of the arena. Grande has many younger fans, and there were many parents waiting to collect their children outside the venue. Police later said the blast killed 22 people, and over 50 people were injured. Some were treated on site while others were taken to local hospitals. First responders reported some of the victims had 'shrapnel wounds.'Ariana Grande, pictured in a file photo above, is a 23-year-old singer from the US. She is currently on her global 'Dangerous Woman Tour,' with her next scheduled concert for May 25 in London. Hours after the explosion in Manchester, Grande tweeted: "broken. from the bottom of my heart, i am so so sorry. i don't have words." In the aftermath of the explosion, several messages appeared on social media seeking help in finding people who were unaccounted for after the blast. Hotels near the venue opened their doors for children who had not yet been reunited with their parents, and #RoomInManchester began trending on Twitter as residents offered a place to stay for anyone stranded after the blast.Police are treating the explosion as a "terrorist incident." So far, no arrests have been made. Prime Minister Theresa May issued a statement early Tuesday morning, saying "We are working to establish the full details of what is being treated by the police as an appalling terrorist attack." The government's emergency Cobra committee is scheduled to meet Tuesday morning. Author: Matt Zuvela