US President Donald Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, will cooperate with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) as it looks into his ties with Russia, according to a statement from Kushner's attorney released on Friday."Mr. Kushner previously volunteered to share with Congress what he knows about these meetings. He will do the same if he is contacted in connection with any other inquiry," the statement from attorney Jamie Gorelick said.The statement came the same day the House oversight committee asked the FBI to hand over more documents - some dating back nearly four years - concerning ex-FBI head James Comey's interactions with the White House and the Justice Department. The oversight committee is also looking into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.Kushner a key figure in Trump administrationMeetings between Kushner and Russian officials in December have come under scrutiny as part of an investigation into potential Russian meddling in the US election, newspaper "The Washington Post" and broadcaster NBC reported. Kushner, a key White House adviser who is married to Trump's daughter Ivanka, reportedly met late last year with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak and Russian banker Sergey Gorkov."The Washington Post" cited anonymous "people familiar with the investigation," who said the FBI investigation did not mean Kushner was suspected of a crime.Gorkov, is chairman of VneshEconomBank, a state bank under US sanctions since July 2014.Kushner intially failed to declare the meetings in forms required to obtain security clearance to serve in the White House. His lawyer later said it was a mistake, telling the FBI that he would amend the forms.Kushner is the only current White House official known to be considered a key figure in the FBI probe, which is targeting other members of Trump's campaign team.Joe Lieberman out of leadership runFBI Director James Comey announces in May that the bureau will open an investigation into Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server for both her personal and government correspondence while secretary of state between 2009 and 2013. Two months later, Comey says that the FBI will not pursue criminal charges against Clinton, enraging Republican legislators.US authorities seize former New York congressman Anthony Weiner's laptop and mobile devices as part of a probe into allegations he sent sexually explicit text messages to a 15-year-old. They go on to discover emails from Clinton and Huma Abedin, Weiner's wife and a close Clinton aid, on the devices.The Obama administration publically accuses Moscow of meddling in the 2016 presidential election after WikiLeaks publishes a trove of confidential emails from the Democratic National Convention. In a statement, the Department of Homeland Security says it believes that "based on the scope and sensitivity of these efforts, only Russia s senior-most officials could have authorized these activities."Just days before the presidential election, Comey announces the FBI is reopening its investigation into Clinton's email on the back of evidence found on Weiner's laptop. "It took a lot of guts... But I ll tell you what he did, he brought back his reputation," Republican nominee Donald Trump says. On November 6, the FBI concludes it found nothing in the emails to alter its original decision.Trump is elected President, defeating Clinton by winning 304 electoral college votes to her 227.Comey confirms that the FBI is investigating alleged ties between Trump's election campaign team and the Russian government. The FBI director also dismisses the president's tweets alleging that Obama ordered Trump Tower to be wiretapped during the election. In her most extensive remarks since the divisive presidential election, Clinton says that Comey's email probe announcement in October contributed to her election defeat. Trump, meanwhile, takes a different view, tweeting that Comey "gave her a free pass for many bad deeds!"The very next day, Comey testifies before the Senate Judiciary Committee, defending his decision to reopen the investigation into Clinton's email just days before the election. He says it makes him "nauseous" to think he could have affected the election, but adds that Abedin had forwarded "hundreds and thousands of emails (to Weiner), some of which contain classified information."The Washington Post newspaper and ProPublica investigative journalism network reveal that the FBI was forced to clarify in a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee that Comey had exaggerated about the number of emails Abedin forwarded.Trump, heeding advice from Department of Justice, fires Comey, informing him that he is "not able to effectively lead the bureau." In a memo, the White House says it "cannot defend the Director's handling of the conclusion of the investigation of Secretary Clinton's emails," and does "not understand his refusal to accept the nearly universal judgment that he was mistaken." Author: David Martin Joe Lieberman, a former US Senator and vice presidential candidate, withdrew from consideration as the next director of the FBI on Thursday due to a potential conflict of interest.Lieberman currently works at a New York City law firm led by Marc Kasowitz, whom Trump hired to represent him against collusion investigations by the Justice Department and Congress, which are being conducted concurrently with that of the FBI. The law firm, Kasowitz Benson Torres LLP, has represented Trump on many occasions over previous years.Joe Lieberman, a favorite to head the FBI, has removed himself from the running"With your selection of Marc Kasowitz to represent you in the various investigations that have begun, I do believe it would be best to avoid any appearance of a conflict of interest," Lieberman wrote in a letter to Trump on Wednesday, which was made public on Thursday.Lieberman was considered a top candidate to become FBI director. Trump said last Thursday that he was "very close" to selecting a new director. The White House did not release an immediate comment on Lieberman's withdrawal.Trump fired previous FBI director James Comey on May 9. In his role, Comey led the FBI's campaign collusion probe. Trump and Russia have both denied the accusations.Lieberman served as a Senator from Connecticut from 1989 until he retired in 2013. He was the Democratic vice presidential candidate during the 2000 US presidential election, but later left the Democratic party to serve as an independent.aw, kbd/kl (AFP, AP, Reuters, dpa)