There had been a lot of excitement when, on the century of Auguste Rodin's death, a long-forgotten sculpture was rediscovered in Madrid earlier this year."Andromede was awaiting us," said St phane Aubert, associate director of the Paris-based Artcurial auction house that sold the work, of the sculpture unexpectedly turning up in the Spanish capital. "This was the moving and rare emotion we felt when we rediscovered this major work by Rodin, preciously kept in the same family from generation to generation for all these years."For a long time, all trace of the masterpiece created by Rodin in 1886-87 was lost, even if it was known that the work was gifted to the family of Paris-based Chilean diplomat Carlos Morla Vicuna in 1888.Vicuna had originally asked his friend Auguste Rodin to produce a portrait of his wife Luisa. Rodin's subsequent marble bust of the young woman was greatly admired after it was exhibited at the Salon National des Beaux Arts, and the French state then asked to acquire the piece. After Vicuna, a patron of the arts, agreed to relinquish the bust, Rodin thanked him by giving him "Andromede."Rodin at work in a scene from "Rodin," which just screened at the Cannes Film Festival "For 130 years she stayed in this family of diplomats despite the members' different foreign postings," said Bruno Jaubert, Artcurial's director of the impressionist and modern art department, who also helped locate the sculpture in Madrid.The white marble sculpture shows the Ethiopian princess Andromede, a figure in Greek mythology, naked asleep on a rock. It was one of four pieces created by Rodin on the subject that are held in galleries and private collections around the world.Andromede was only expected to fetch around 1.2 million euros at the Tuesday auction. Purchased by an unnamed European collector, it went for more than three times that amount, for nearly 3.7 million euros ($4.1 million).However, the substantial sale price is far eclipsed by the record set last year for a Rodin marble sculpture, "Eternal springtime," which sold for $20.41 million (18.25 million euros) at Sotheby's in New York in May 2016.Rodin's renowned sculpture depicts the poet Dante, who ponders over his latest creation. Created by Rodin between 1881 and 1883, the iconic sculpture also had a great influence on 20th century art. Beside it, a sculpture by Georg Baselitz can be seen - although Baselitz's thinker ironically wears platform shoes.During the siege of Calais in 1347, King Edward II is said to have demanded that the most respected citizens hand him the key the city for it to be freed. The north French city commissioned Auguste Rodin to create the monument, "The Citizens of Calais," in 1884. The cast has been standing in front of the Calais town hall since 1895."The Kiss" (1886) is one of Rodin s best-known and most popular sculptures. It shows an intimate couple so intertwined that the viewer becomes, as it were, a voyeur. Originally titled "Francesca da Rimini", the sculpture portrays the tragic relationship between Paolo and Francesco at the Gates of Hell (as portrayed in Dante s "Inferno"). Such naked passion broke with the taboos of the time.Rodin was a master of depicting incomplete subjects. At the time, presenting fragments of finished sculptures was revolutionary. With this preliminary version of his work, "The Walking Man," Rodin opposed the smooth surfaces preferred by arts academies in the second half of the 19th century.Four sculptures are placed in a row in the Grand Palais: they derive from different eras and from different artists: Zadkin, Kolbe and Rodin. Each subject stretches its arms as if it was hit by lightning, or is anticipating help from God. These pained figures are influenced by Rodin's sculpture, "The Prodigal Son." Auguste Rodin was the second sculptor to receive a commission from the Soci t des Gens de Lettres to create a monument to honor the death of the great author, Honor de Balzac. He concentrated on the "shape of the mind" and thus on thought. But the plaster model triggered a scandal in 1898. It wasn t until 1939 that Aristide Maillos and Charles Despiau unveiled Rodin's bronze statue in Paris.Rodin s "Sleep" portrays the beauty of a sleeping woman whose facial features are soft and subtle, and who radiates deep peace and tranquility, but also solitude. Rodin excelled at expressing such extreme emotions in his works.Constantin Brancusi, who visited Rodin several times in his studio, captures the other-worldly moment of sleep in "The Sleeping Muse." Referencing the work of Rodin, the sculpture s facial features are softened and are hardly visible, while ear and hair are already enveloped in the alien sphere of sleep.The striking giant bronze figure "The Walking Man" is surrounded by works of art that refer to this masterpiece, or are directly influenced by it. Created in the style of classical Greek or Roman statues, most especially "Venus de Milo," "The Walking Man" shows the decapitated figure of John the Baptist who is also mutilated, with Rodin leaving off his arms. "Auguste Rodin: les Cath drales de France" is Anselm Kiefer's striking painting currently on display in the Mus e Rodin. Pictured are gigantic church towers, which he created with lead, among other things. Works by Kiefer and Rodin are juxtaposed for the first time at the Grand Palais. In all their contrasting layers, they combine the search for a new approach to both materials and stories. Author: Sabine Oelze (sb) sb/eg (AFP, dpa)