Champions League tussleEven though Germany's top four positions are secured, the order is still to be decided. The all-important third position secures automatic qualification for the Champions League, while fourth entails a difficult playoff against one of the other high finishers in Europe's top leagues. So, for Borussia Dortmund and Hoffenheim, there's an enormous amount at stake in Saturday's game.Nine games in 29 days is much to handle for any club, but Thomas Tuchel has done remarkably well to navigate the aftermath of the attack on Dortmund's team bus, whilst keeping the yellow and blacks in competitive shape. His side fell a point behind Hoffenheim after a goalless draw against Cologne. "We still have it in our own hands," said the Dortmund coach. But Hoffenheim, coached by the impressive Julian Nagelsmann, are without a defeat in 11 matches and haven't lost to Bayern Munich or Borussia Dortmund this season.A win for Nagelsmann over his former colleague Tuchel would all-but secure third place for Hoffenheim.Max Kruse has 14 goals in 20 appearances for Werder this seasonCan anyone stop Werder Bremen?This point in the season is when Werder Bremen normally stave off relegation. But this year the green and whites are comfortably save, and have sights on European football. "I see this rather positively.&nbsp;We can have the imagination to achieve more, but now we have to implement it.&nbsp;It is also a headache.&nbsp;But we feel ready," explained Bremen coach Alexander Nouri.It's hard not to imagine the achievements, when Max Kruse, for example, is the in the form of his life. The 29-year-old has scored eight times in his last six outings and has created a further five strikes for his teammates. The table doesn't lie: for this third of the campaign, Werder Bremen are a comprehensive top three club. "It is not a particularly good idea to build new pressure now.&nbsp;We just want to continue to win our games and then look at what's possible," said defender Lamine Sane.If Werder win on the road, then they will take a giant step towards their first European campaign since 2011.Hamburg play Mainz, Schalke and Wolfsburg in the final three gamesGroundhog day in HamburgHamburg suffered a rude awakening last week, with a 4-0 defeat to Augsburg plunging the northern Germans back into a nail-biting relegation battle. With three games left, this is the most precarious position the club has been in - despite winning two of the last three relegation playoffs. Markus Gisdol has planned a training camp ahead of Sunday's visit of fellow strugglers Mainz, while three players - Johan Djourou, Ashton G tz and Nabil Bahoui - were suspended.Gisdol, who was appointed in October, has made great progress in Hamburg, the northern Germans even managing a run of 10 games at home without a defeat. The Augsburg defeat seems to have sucked the confidence and belief out of the squad at the worst time. Before the season's out, Hamburg will take on Mainz, Schalke and Wolfsburg, a collection of six-pointers in the relegation battle.A win for either side would add some air between them and relegation, but given the precariousness of the situation, there will be plenty of twists and turns before the summer.Cologne vs. Werder Bremen (Friday 2030 CEST)Bayern Munich vs. Darmstadt (Saturday 1530 CEST)Borussia Dortmund vs. HoffenheimBorussia M nchngladbach vs. AugsburgIngolstadt vs. Bayer LeverkusenEintracht Frankfurt vs. WolfsburgHertha Berlin vs. RB Leipzig (Saturday 1830 CEST)Hamburg vs. Mainz (Sunday 1530 CEST)Freiburg vs. Schalke (1730 CEST)