Pippa Middleton, 33, and James Matthews, 41, kissed and waved to the crowd of well-wishers and reporters gathered outside St. Mark's church in Englefield, Berkshire, before showers forced the wedding party to rush to the reception at the Middleton estate a little sooner than planned.The wedding was understandably on a smaller scale than her sister Kate's 2011 nuptials to Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, at Westminster Abbey, but it was ever as much a royal event.Security was high at the wedding, as four direct heirs to the throne were in attendance: Prince William, Prince Harry, Prince George and Princess Charlotte. A no-fly zone was part of the precautions taken for the ceremony. Wedding guests were also told to refrain from taking pictures to post on social media, though some guests defied the ban, posting pictures of the wedding party arriving at the church.A wedding dress that set new standardsImages posted online showed Pippa Middleton's white lace wedding dress, a short-sleeved gown made by designer Giles Deacon, which appeared to have been crafted in a seamless look. With a high neckline and a corseted bodice, the white lace dress was complimented by a Stephen Jones veil and accentuated by Manolo Blahnik shoes.Pippa arrived at her wedding in an open-top vintage carAfter the ceremony, a lavish private reception was planned at the bride's parents' estate in nearby Bucklebury. According to reports published by British media, the wedding reception at the Middleton estate was to feature a massive glass marquee for a Scottish-themed soiree. The exact number of wedding guests at the event was unknown, the daily newspaper "The Daily Mail" reported that about 120 guests were invited to the church and that some 300 would attend the reception.When's the next wedding?Many were disappointed when Prince Harry did not attend the church ceremony with his girlfriend, Meghan Markle. With generations of royals attending the wedding, security measures were highThe US actress may, however, be present at the reception, with rumors about the Prince's future with Markle rife since the relationship was first made public. Royal watchers hope to see clues that Markle's romance with Harry could lead to another royal wedding in 2017 - one that would eclipse Saturday's event.The Middleton and Matthews families gave no public statements about Saturday's events, nor did the royal family, with Prince Harry asking the press to respect their privacy.Queen Elizabeth was a mere 13-year-old girl when she fell in love with her future husband. The public was wary when the palace announced her engagement to Philip. Although he was Prince of Greece and Denmark, he was also impoverished, and his sisters had ties to the much-despised Germans. The couple married all the same in 1947, one of the first mega TV events. Everyone smiled for the wedding pictures - wasn't this the perfect match? Some 750 million people watched the ceremony on TV on July 29, 1982 - one person out of six worldwide. Today, we know despair lurked behind the glamorous facade: Prince Charles loved another woman. For Diana, it was the "worst day of her life." The unhappy couple had two children, and separated in 1992.Another wedding in the House of Windsor - and this one was good news, decades after the drama surrounding Charles and Diana. Prince William and Kate married in 2011, a royal dream team that appears to be completely scandal-free. The public adores the couple and their young children, George and Charlotte.Silvia Sommerlath, a young German interpreter, was working as a hostess at the 1972 Summer Olympic Games in Munich when she met Swedish Crown Prince Carl Gustav. It was love at first sight, and they married in June 1976. The Swedish pop group ABBA wrote the hit song "Dancing Queen" for her. The royal wedding had many Germans in tears - finally, they had a Queen, too - even if it was in Sweden.If her father Carl Gustav could marry a commoner and make her queen, then the Swedish royal couple's eldest daughter could also do it the other way around. Many decades later, crown princess Victoria also married a commoner: her fitness trainer, Daniel Westling. The King and the Swedish people were initially skeptical, but over the years, the Prince of Sweden has turned into a very popular royal. In April 1956, 30 million people watched the wedding of gorgeous Grace Kelly to Prince Rainier III. The popular US actress was now Princess Grace of Monaco, a small principality on the Mediterranean. She never again starred on the screen. The couple had three children in a marriage rumored to have been unhappy. The paparazzi were always on the princess' heels. She died in a car accident in 1982.Many decades later in Monaco, Grace and Rainer's only son, Prince Albert, married Charlene Wittstock. The former South African swimmer wore an elegant Armani wedding gown for the 2011 ceremony, as illustrious guests from all over the world watched her glide down the aisle. The couple had twins in 2014 - and all of Monaco loves the royal toddlers.Wealthy hotel chain heiress Nicky Hilton married British multi-millionaire James Rothschild in 2015. Their wedding day was a most lavish affair. The bride wore a 70,000-euro ($77,900 ) Valentino wedding dress for the event held at the Kensington Palace Orangery - the home of British royals Catherine and William.She was the love of his life. Marilyn and baseball legend Joe DiMaggio married in 1954. Shaped by two strong characters and Joe's jealousy, the marriage was turbulent and short-lived. Joe once said about their sex life that it was like "gods fighting; there were thunder-clouds and lightning." The couple separated in 1955, but Joe always loved Marilyn - and organized her funeral in 1962. In this dream wedding in 2004, the Prince of Spain married Letizia Ortiz, a former TV anchorwoman. A scandal: this was Letizia's second marriage. The couple was not to be deterred, however, and got married amid great media attention. Letizia had two daughters, and was crowned Queen after her father-in-law, King Juan Carlos, abdicated. The marriage is said to be very happy. Venice, Italy, 2014: Hollywood's hottest bachelor, actor George Clooney, and his gorgeous bride, lawyer Amal Alamuddin exchanged marriage vows. The dream couple is expecting twins. Shocking news recently rippled through the tabloids: Amal banned George from their bedroom - because he snores so mightily. Author: Silke W nsch (db)