A suspected suicide bomb blast killed a police officer and wounded nine people, including four police officers, at a bus terminal in Jakarta on Wednesday."There has been a bomb, for now we suspect it is a suicide bombing," deputy national police chief Syafruddin told station TV One. The bomber was also killed. Television pictures showed smoke rising from the Kampung Melayu terminal as police cordoned off the area.The police were guarding a parade ahead of Ramadan, which starts on Friday. Indonesia is the world's most populous Muslim country. Increasing Islamic militancy spread from the Middle East has raised concerns over Indonesia's traditionally moderate form of Islam.Indonesia has been hit by a series of Islamic militant attacks in the past 15 years, including the 2002 Bali bombings, in which 202 people, mostly foreign tourists, were killed.A gun and suicide attack in Jakarta in January last year, which left left four attackers and four civilians dead, was the first assault claimed by the Islamic State group in Southeast Asia.President Joko Widodo said on Wednesday authorities would "clobber" any religious group threatening the country's moderate Islam and tradition of pluralism. Earlier this month officials said they would close down Hizb ut-Tahrir Indonesia, a hardline Islamist group that calls for sharia law. Another group, the Islamic Defenders' Forum (FPI), led rallies against Jakarta's former governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama that polarized the nation. A Chinese Christian, he was sentenced to two years in prison this month for insulting the Quran. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ceWqFPI helped to swing last month's election that saw Purnama lose to a Muslim challenger. Prosecutors are challenging the sentencing which was higher than the one-year suspended sentence they had recommended. Purnama's supporters have been holding rallies against his conviction. cw/rc (AFP, dpa, Reuters) 