Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu warned on Wednesday that arming the People's Protection Units (YPG) Syrian Kurdish militia&nbsp;was no different to arming the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) group fighting in Turkey.Cavusoglu's remarks came as the US signed off on an order to arm YPG fighters in the fight to recapture the Syrian city of Raqqa, the last remaining stronghold of the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) jihadist group. Turkey, however, classifies the YPG as a terrorist group."Both the PKK and the YPG are terrorist organizations and they are no different, apart from their names," Cavusoglu told reporters during a visit to Montenegro. "Every weapon seized by them is a threat to Turkey."- More than 200 people from Germany fighting with Kurds against 'IS'- Turkey spars with US military over Syrian KurdsSyria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.In April the US launched a missile strike against a Syrian air-base in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on civilians. The attacked marked a sharp turn-around in US Syrian policy, with President Donald Trump long advocating against direct action against the Syrian regime.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has aided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Turkey's top diplomat added that the US was well aware of Ankara's stance and that the issue would be discussed when Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan meets his US counterpart Donald Trump during a visit to Washington next week.Read more:&nbsp;Turkey carries out airstrikes on 'Kurdish rebel positions' in Iraq, SyriaEarlier on Wednesday, quoting Deputy Prime Minister Nurettin Canikli was quoted by Turkish media of saying that the US' order was "unacceptable" and that he hoped Washington would reverse its decision.US: Kurdish assistance necessary in fight against IS&nbsp;However, in announcing the order, the US appeared to double down on its position that Kurds provide crucial help in wiping out&nbsp;IS&nbsp;and liberating Raqqa."We are keenly aware of the security concerns of our coalition partner, Turkey," Defense Department spokeswoman Dana White said in a statement on Tuesday. "We want to reassure the people and government of Turkey that the US is committed to preventing additional security risks and protecting our NATO ally."The Pentagon stressed that assisting the YPG was "necessary to ensure a clear victory" against IS in Raqqa.The US and western powers have been backing&nbsp;a Syrian alliance of militias, known as the&nbsp;Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), fighting IS. Among its groups is the Kurdish YPG.YPG welcomes armsThe YPG militia hailed the US' decision to provide it with arms, calling the decision "historic" and a&nbsp;"sign of confidence" in the group.The move, coupled with the US' commitment to its umbrella coalition with the&nbsp;SDF, would expand its operations against IS, the YPG said in a statement. The decision was a refutation of "distortions" likening the YPG to a terrorist group, it added.dm/rt&nbsp;(Reuters, AP, dpa) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2b47L