In Monday's edition of German daily S ddeutsche Zeitung, Gabriel (pictured above) spoke out against Germany's existing policy towards dealing with Greece's debt."Greece has always been promised debt relief when its reforms are implemented," said Gabriel, a member of the Social Democrats (SPD), the junior government coalition partners. "Now we must stand by that promise."Germany's larger coalition partner, Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), opposes debt relief. It controls the Finance Ministry in the shape of Wolfgang Sch uble, who refuses to unlock more loans to Greece without the partnership of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). However, Gabriel claimed the IMF and a majority within the Eurogroup support further debt relief. This should not "fail because of German resistance," he said.The IMF reportedly wants a maximum debt relief commitment upfront, while others would prefer to be more precise only in 2018, a senior eurozone official told the agency Reuters, referring to the end of the third bailout in mid-2018.The issue is sensitive in Germany, where more debt relief for Greece is widely seen as a vote loser in the run-up to parliamentary elections in September. It has also been a bone of contention between the IMF and Sch uble, the eurozone's most influential official, for several months. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2Y0NKMinisters from the 19-member eurozone will discuss the subject at talks in Brussels later on Monday after Greek MPs fulfilled the latest demands for reforms in a vote last Thursday, giving the go-ahead for a further austerity package that includes pension reductions and tax increases. The vote satisfied the conditions of Greece's bailout and opened the way for debt relief as well as new loans meaning that Athens can repay a debt of 7 billion euros ($7.8 billion) in July.If there is a debt deal, Athens reportedly has tentative plans for a return to bond markets as early as July. The IMF has made more debt relief a condition of taking part in Greece's latest 86-billion-euro bailout, its third since 2010. It has said that Greece's debt is unsustainable and will be "explosive" in the long run, requiring a new plan from Europe, including extending grace periods and maturities on the loans far beyond what the eurozone has committed to to data."I am sure that the German finance ministry is also interested in a solution and is working on it," Gabriel said. "The political blockade must now be dissolved [...] the citizens of Greece have suffered big social cuts."Greece's debt stands at 180 percent of annual output, a legacy of the Greek debt crisis."Our country... has fulfilled its obligations totally and on time," Greek Finance Minister Euclid Tsakalotos said on Sunday. "There is no excuse for further delay on the issue of the debt relief," he added.jbh/rt (AFP, Reuters)A growing number of Greeks is barely making ends meet. After seven years of bailouts that poured billions of euros into their country, poverty is still an issue, worssening like nowhere else in the EU. Above, people line up to apply for social benefits in Athens. The global financial crisis and its fallout forced four euro zone countries to turn to international lenders. Ireland, Portugal and Cyprus all went through rescue programs - and their economies are growing again. But Greece, the first to receive a bailout in 2010, has already needed three support lines.Eva Agkisalaki, 61, a former teacher who volunteers in a soup kitchen run by the Orthodox church, did not qualify for a pension because her contract ended when the retirement age was lifted to 67 under the bailout program. Part of her husband's pension - cut to 600 ($634) from 980 as part of the reform package demanded by the international lenders - goes to her son and daughter's families.Eva receives handouts from the soup kitchen which she shares with her unemployed daughter and her son. "We're vegetating," she says between setting a long wooden table for the next meal of bean soup, bread, an egg, a slice of pizza and an apple. "We just exist. Most Greeks just exist."An elderly man sells chestnuts in front of the parliament building in Athens during a demonstration demanding tax cuts. International creditors are urging tax hikes and pension cuts, but the government says the country has seen enough austerity. An elderly woman eyes donated clothes at a soup kitchen. Greece isn't the poorest member of the EU - poverty rates are higher in Bulgaria and Romania. But it ranks third, with Eurostat data showing 22.2 percent of the population were "severely materially deprived" in 2015.A man patiently waits to have his clothes washed by the Ithaca mobile laundry service. Volunteers drive a van across town with two washing machines and two dryers, offering their services ti the homeless. "You see the same faces, but also new ones," says Fanis Tsonas, co-founder of the mobile laundry as destitute men and women approach the van toting bags of laundry. Author: Nadine Berghausen