Details about the murder of a female German national in Kabul remain unclear. The spokesman of the Afghan Interior Ministry, Najib Danish, told the German news agency dpa on Sunday. Danish added that a Finnish national was kidnapped in course of the same assault. A private security guard was also killed.The spokesman said the two women worked for the Swedish NGO Operation Mercy. The group has not commented on the incident. He did not say if there was a terrorist or other criminal motive behind the attack, The event reportedly took place at a women's guest house in Kabul's seventh district at around 11:30 p.m. local time (19:30 UTC) on Saturday. An investigation has been launched.Rise in abductionsKidnapping has become a major problem in Afghanistan, usually affecting Afghan nationals who are abducted for ransom. However, foreigners have increasingly become targets as well. In some cases, foreigners have been abducted in Afghanistan to exert pressure on their governments.Many aid organizations have moved their headquarters from central Kabul to the outskirts of the city for this reason and due to other security concerns.Worsening security situation throughout AfghanistanElsewhere in the country, at least 20 Afghan policemen were killed on Sunday as Taliban fighters stormed multiple security outposts in the southern province of Zabul. At least 15 others were wounded in the ensuing fighting.The coordinated attack is another blow to NATO-backed Afghan forces, just one month after the Taliban killed at least 135 security forces in the northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif.Taliban insurgents have been escalating their annual "spring offensive" in recent weeks, showing a resurgence of power more than 15 years since they were ousted from power by the US-led invasion of 2001. US President Donald Trump is considering sending troops back into the country to help stabilize the situation. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2bjzqss/sms (Reuters, dpa, EFE)