Is fasting good for your relationship? According to Torsten Albig, the likely outgoing premier of Schleswig-Holstein, the answer is yes. "It was a tough experience for both body and soul, but it was totally nice for our relationship," he told German celebrity magazine "Bunte" at the end of April.His "homestory," as such reports about the private lives of famous people are called in Germany, generated a lot of attention shortly before state elections in Schleswig-Holstein, but not exactly with the desired effect. The center-left Social Democrats' (SPD) poll numbers went into a tailspin; the party picked up less than 27 percent of the vote - a result that will most likely cost Albig his job.Criticism began raining down from the party leadership, with SPD Secretary General Katarina Barley commenting that the election in this northernmost German state didn't center on the issues, but rather "things like the premier's private life."In his interview with Bunte, Albig talked about his separation from his wife, saying that they could no longer discuss things as equals, because she'd "become trapped in her role as a mother and housewife.""He basically insulted a large group of voters," said Christina Holtz-Bacha, communication researcher at the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg. "Of course, it's not right to assume that his quote alone is responsible for the SPD's loss, but the way he expressed himself was really not very skillful."The Schulz effect: A question of authenticity"It's very daring to do an interview like that during an election campaign," said Lukas Otto, an expert in political psychology at the University of Koblenz-Landau. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cd7xSo why, then, do some politicians reveal so much about their private lives to the tabloid press? "They look at these types of homestories and the candid coverage in the United States," said Otto."There, the whole family, right down to the family pet, is part of the campaign," said Holtz-Bacha.One example of this is former President Barack Obama's promise to buy his daughters a dog when they moved into the White House. France also has a tendency to focus on the private lives of political candidates, as the recent reporting about President-elect Emmanuel Macron's marriage shows.According to political psychologist Otto, even information that appears to be negative can help a campaign. He offers the example of the "Schulz effect." After the SPD's Martin Schulz declared his intention to challenge Angela Merkel for the chancellorship, his earlier battle with alcoholism became an issue in the media. "It was a negative bit of private information that ended up having a positive effect because of his image of authenticity," said Otto, adding that voters appreciate Schulz's openness and honesty in dealing with his past.No PR strategy can protect politicians from themselvesWhenever politicians reveal details about their lives, it's a calculated move. Many are tempted to embrace social media, but that can also backfire. Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel learned that the hard way when he was mocked after posting a photo of himself sitting next to a very expensive Mercedes-Benz SUV. "The boomerang effect can end up being bigger than the attention you were originally seeking," said Otto. "In the case of Torsten Albig, the problem could be that the interview didn't come across as authentic, rather it was seen as orchestrated."Even PR managers can't do much to counteract candidates who think they know best how to sell themselves to the public, says Holtz-Bacha. "Candidates sometimes forget that the media have a commercial interest," she said. "Just think of how Christian Wulff reacted when 'Bild' newspaper said it was going to report on his private loans." The then-German president pressured the tabloid to drop the story. His image suffered and it wasn't long before he stepped down. "If you go up with Bild, then you have to be prepared to go down with it, too," said Mathias D pfner, the former CEO of Axel Springer, the publishing giant that owns Bild.The mobile 'Bild' boss Kai Diekmann used for his famous call with Wulff is on display in a German museumGiving an interview to a tabloid is no guarantee that you'll get good press. "I'm pretty sure that the people in the Bunte office knew that Albig's interview was controversial and would be a sensation, and they used that," said Holtz-Bacha.'The private is political'Journalist Tina Handel says there have been two German politicians who knew how to use the tabloid press - former chancellors Willy Brandt and Gerhard Schr der. She examines the relationship between politics and the popular press in her book "The private is political.""Schr der always said that he needed the tabloids in order to govern," Handel said.Over the years, the range of topics covered by the tabloids has grown. Any German politician is now aware that the private is political. Accordingly, they have to ensure that their political positions are in line with the way they behave privately, says Holtz-Bacha.The Merkel methodBut for some analysts, the end of the Schr der era also meant an end to the wave of big time German politicians playing to the tabloids. And that has largely to do with his successor, Angela Merkel. "In Merkel, we have a chancellor who keeps her private life private, and doesn't use it when campaigning," said Holtz-Bacha. Neither the media nor voters punish her for this choice. "This separation of private and political life works very well for many German politicians," said political psychologist Otto.As the campaign season gears up ahead of September's general election, German voters are not expecting any public revelations from the chancellor or any of her challengers. "I don't see this as being a big deal for either candidate of the two main parties," said Otto. So if you're expecting the summer to bring a photo series of Angela Merkel or Martin Schulz at home or enjoying leisure time at the pool, you're likely to be disappointed.The stakes are high for Germany's election year. With Chancellor Angela Merkel up for a fourth term and the populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party attempting to cash in on anti-migrant sentiment, one thing is clear - German politics won't be the same by the end of 2017. Here's a look at the most important dates.Germany's "super election year" kicked off in the small western state of Saarland, on the French border. Chancellor Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) came out on top, snagging over 40 percent of the vote and securing a third term for state premier Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer (L). The populist AfD will also enter Saarland's parliament for the first time after claiming 6.2 percent of the vote.State elections in northern Schleswig-Holstein saw Merkel's CDU overtaking the ruling Social Democrats (SPD) in a surprising upset. The CDU, led by top candidate Daniel G nther (above), won 32 percent of the vote while the SPD dropped three points to 27 percent. Anti-immigrant AfD will also enter the Schleswig-Holstein parliament after clearing the 5 percent hurdle.A state of traditional rural regions and diverse urban zones, the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia is also Germany's most populous state with 17.5 million inhabitants. NRW's state parliament election is also perceived as a test run for how the federal election will play out in September.The 97th day before the election is the cut off date for any party to announce its intention to run for the Bundestag. They have to submit their applications by 6 p.m. to the Federal Returning Officer. Roderich Egeler (above) oversees the election and heads Germany's Statistical Office.On the 79th day before the election, the parties that are allowed to take part in the election are announced by the Federal Returning Officer. If a party does not agree with decision, it has four days to file a complaint with Germany's Constitutional Court.Political parties in Germany have until the 69th day before the election to determine which candidates will be running in which constituency. These representatives make up the first vote on Germany's split ballot. Parties must also submit a list of candidates for the party vote on the second half of the ballot.Smaller parties that filed a suit with the Constitutional Court to be allowed to take part in the election will receive their verdicts today. This option has only been available since the last Bundestag election in 2013. At that time, 11 parties petitioned the court to appear on the ballot - but none were successful.Unlike other countries, parties in Germany cannot put up campaign posters or run TV ads until 6 weeks before the election. But on August 13, the campaign floodgates open and no lamp post will be safe from the cardboard visages of each party's main candidates.A little over one month shy of the election, the most important list is compiled - the electoral register or voter list. In Germany, every citizen who is 18 years or older can vote in the general election - meaning there are 61.5 million eligible voters this year.At this point, all eligible voters should have recieved an authorization certificate in the mail. People who aren't already on the voter list still have time to register. Those who wish to vote-by-mail can request their ballot.Less than a week to go and preparations are kicking into high gear. Ballots, polling booths and transport boxes start rolling in and election workers are trained. Local authorities must inform voters where they should go to vote. Residents can still register until 36 hours before the election.The big day has finally arrived. Schools, gym halls and community centers are transformed as people arrive to cast their ballots. Polling stations open at 8:00 a.m. sharp and at 6:00 p.m. they close again. The votes are tallied and the Federal Returning Officer announces the preliminary results that same night.Only after all of the representative and party votes are counted, the final result is announced. If a candidate did not win his or her constituency, they could still get a seat in the Bundestag if they made the party's regional list.The newly elected parliament must meet for the first time no later than one month after the election. Afterwards comes the tricky work of coalition negotiations, followed by a secret ballot to elect the next chancellor. If anyone wants to challenge the validity of the election, they have two months to do so. All voters, the state election overseers, the president of the Bundestag and the Federal Election Commissioner (above) are entitled to appeal the result. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier