The agreement made on Thursday among the three delegates at the Syria ceasefire talks in Kazakhstan designated four "de-escalation zones" in northern, central and southern Syria.The head of Russia's delegation, Alexander Lavrentyev, said the agreement would go into effect on Saturday and Syrian air forces were expected to cease their flights over the areas. He added that the Syrian government would abide by the agreement unless there were attacks by rebel groups in the designated zones.Russia's Vladimir Putin is confident "safe zones" in Syria's rebel-held areas would deliver a ceasefire that will hold. The 6-year-long conflict dominated Putin's talks in Sochi with Turkish President Erdogan. (03.05.2017) Iran and Russia will set the agenda at the Astana talks as the president's "protecting powers" have effectively taken control of government, writes DW's Kersten Knipp. The US is to send a representative to the talks. (02.05.2017) Speaking by phone with his Russian counterpart, US President Donald Trump has discussed ways to improve conditions on the ground in Syria. The leaders also agreed to meet on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Hamburg. (03.05.2017) Russia and Iran have given their backing to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's regime while Turkey has backed opposition rebels. There has been increasing contact between Ankara and Moscow in recent weeks.While there was no Syrian signature on the document, late on Wednesday&nbsp;Syria's Foreign Ministry said Damascus was "fully backing" the Russian initiative on the four ceasefire areas, according to the state-run SANA news agency. This was confirmed by Syria's chief negotiator at the talks on Thursday.'Step in the right direction'Present at the signing of the memorandum, UN Syria envoy&nbsp;Staffan de Mistura said the plan was a step in the right direction toward a real cessation of hostilities.&nbsp;"Today in Astana I think we have been able to witness an important promising positive step in the right direction in the process of de-escalation of the conflict," de Mistura told reporters in Astana.Negotiators know there will be many more meetings before an agreement can be found to end the Syrian warThe United States gave a cautious welcome to Thursday's deal, saying it was concerned about Iran's role as a "so-called 'guarantor,'" the State Department said.Russia's Lavrentyev said Moscow was ready to work more closely with the US and Saudi Arabia.&nbsp;"Unfortunately, the Americans are still ignoring our attempts to establish closer military cooperation but we will keep trying," Lavrentyev&nbsp;said, adding that Moscow was ready to send its observers to the designated&nbsp;zones.Putin and Erdogan restore relationsTurkey's Foreign Ministry issued a statement on Thursday saying the agreement designated&nbsp;"non-conflict zones" in the whole of Idlib province, parts of Lattakia, Aleppo and Hama provinces, and also parts of Homs province and the Damascus suburb of Eastern Ghouta. It would also apply to areas of Daraa and Quneitra provinces.The ministry added that Turkey would continue efforts to ensure the ceasefire holds so a political solution in Syria could be facilitated.&nbsp;Talks on Wednesday between Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Russian President Vladimir Putin suggested that military flights over safe zones could be prohibited and the warring sides would be separated by "security lines." &nbsp;Meeting in the Russian resort town of Sochi, Putin said on Wednesday that relations had been restored with Turkey following a deterioration when Turkish forces shot down a Russian warplane at the Syrian border in November 2015.Fighting in Syria has been raging for more than six yearsSyrian opposition protestOpposition delegate Osama Abu Zaid said the zones threatened Syria's territorial integrity.&nbsp;"We want Syria to maintain its integrity," he said.&nbsp;"We are against the division of Syria. As for the agreements, we are not a party to that agreement and of course we will never be in favor (of it) as long as Iran is called a guarantor state."&nbsp;Abu Zaid also said that there was "a huge gap" between Russia's promises and actions.The Syrian opposition groups present at the Astana talks have protested Iran's participation in the talks, accusing the state of being a party to the war that has seen the deaths of up to 400,000 people with millions more displaced. &nbsp;Some members of the Syrian opposition delegation in Astana shouted in protest and walked out of the conference room in protest at the signing of the memorandum. On Wednesday they had demanded a halt to the government's bombardment of opposition zones in Syria.UN Syria envoy&nbsp;Staffan de Mistura&nbsp;had called on the rebel delegates to return to the talks in Astana "because what is important is also to look at the possibility of an outcome on a de-escalation."&nbsp;No details have been given about how violence could be reduced in the designated areas. According to the document received by rebels on Wednesday, the areas were to be monitored by international observers and allow for the voluntary return of refugees.US and Russia discussionsThe US White House said President Donald Trump and Putin had discussed setting up safe zones when they spoke by telephone on Tuesday.&nbsp; The United States sent a senior State Department official to the Astana talks for the first time. Russia's Tass news agency reported on Wednesday that Assistant US Secretary of State Stuart Jones met with Russia's representative at the talks.Kazakh Foreign Minister Kairat Abdrakhmanov said the next Syria peace talks would be held in Astana in mid-July.Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.In April the US launched a missile strike against a Syrian air-base in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on civilians. The attacked marked a sharp turn-around in US Syrian policy, with President Donald Trump long advocating against direct action against the Syrian regime.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has aided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher jm/sms (AFP, dpa, Reuters)