Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei criticized the $110 billion weapons deal announced last week between the US and Saudi Arabia, describing how the Saudi leaders were "idiots" and "milk cows for the Americans."He was cited by the Fars news agency as calling the Saudi royal family "an inept and worthless bunch" that trades their wealth with "pagans and enemies." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2dInqThe supreme leader also criticized the kingdom's leaders for siding with the US but ignoring the fate of people in Bahrain and Yemen, in reference to the Bahrain government's ongoing repression of political opponents and the civil war in Yemen, where Riyadh and Tehran are on opposing sides.Saudi kingdom will 'collapse'Ali Khamenei, who is Iran's head of state and chief of the armed forces, warned that the policies of Saudi's rulers would ultimately lead to their "certain downfall."Saudi Arabia was the first stop on Trump's inaugural foreign trip as presidentLast week, US President Donald Trump signed a multi-billion weapons deal with Saudi Arabia during his visit to the kingdom, amid harsh criticism from Tehran that his trip was a "show."Iranian President Hassan Rouhani also called the US leader "intellectually unstable."Tehran under pressureRouhani's criticism followed Trump's call for Middle Eastern states to further isolate Iranover its nuclear program, and accusations that Tehran is supporting terrorism to undermine the region's security.Iran hit back, saying Saudi Arabia, its arch-foe, is the real source of funding for Islamist militants.Relations between Iran and Saudi Arabia further soured in 2016 after demonstrators in Tehran stormed the Saudi embassy and set part of the structure on fire.That demonstration had been triggered by the execution of a Shiite cleric by the Sunni Saudis.Last year, Khamenei criticized Saudi Arabia for its exclusion of Iranians for the Haj pilgrimage following the 2015 crush and stampede that killed 2,411 worshippers.Simple, but functional - this building consisting of one room only was constructed in the sixth millennium BC. The exhibition "Iran. Ancient Culture Between Water and Desert" in Bonn's Bundeskunsthalle museum shows how people lived in the region from the sixth millennium BC until Darius I became king of Persia and founded the Achaemenid dynasty in 522 BC. The Tower of Babel has been associated by scholars with the Etemenanki, a ziggurat dedicated to the Mesopotamian god Marduk by Nabopolassar, king of Babylonia. It was demolished by Alexander the Great. The story linked to it was meant to explain the origin of different languages. It was recorded in Genesis, the first book of the Jewish Tanakh and the Old Testament. Among the exhibits are backgammon boards made of soap stone and beautifully decorated with snakes and birds. The Royal Game of Ur was already played all over Western Asia in the third millennium BC. Also called the Game of 20 Squares, it is still popular today. In 2001, police succeeded in safeguarding significant findings that had been looted from the plain of Jiroft, in particular beautiful vessels made of chlorite. This item here dates back to the third millennium BC. Chlorite abounds in a quarry located in Tepe Yahya roughly 90 kilometers from the archaeological site. Wealthy people who lived back then are believed to have drunk wine from gold goblets at the tombs of their dead. The goblets used during these ceremonies give proofof highly developed manual and technical skills. Half-human and half-animal creatures decorated the cups like reliefs. Their heads were added later on. Is this a fairy tale of 1,001 nights? This heavy gold jewelry including rings, bracelets and chains, was found in a tomb of two Elamite princesses in the village of Jubaji close to the Persian Gulf in 2007. The princesses were also provided with food and religious items believed to assist them during their journey to the next world.Tshogha Zanbil was the residential city of King Untash-Napirisha (1275-1240 BC). It was surrounded by three huge walls. As the finding of thousands of bricks there suggests, there might have been plans to expand the city. The Persian Garden has been named a UNESCO's World Heritage Site. A typical inner court garden was reconstructed for the exhibition in Bonn's Bundeskunsthalle. The central water basin with fountains offers refreshment. It is flanked by exotic flower beds. People can relax in a loggia with couches. High walls protect them against the sun - and curious onlookers. Author: Sabine Oelze (ad) mm/kl (AP, dpa, Reuters)