The EU's police coordination agency has&nbsp;launched a probe into whether the so-called "Islamic State" militant group developed their own social media platform to sidestep authorities, said Europol Director Rob Wainwright on Wednesday.Wainwright said a two-day operation involving law enforcement agents from Belgium, Greece, Poland, Portugal and the US identified more than 2,000 "Islamic State"-linked items deemed "harmful and legal.""Within that operation it was revealed IS was now developing its very own social media platform, its own part of the internet to run its agenda," Wainwright said at a press conference in London."It does show that some members of Daesh, at least, continue to innovate in this space," the Europol chief added.EU authorities have bolstered counter-terrorism efforts across the content in the wake of deadly attacks in European capitals, including Paris, Berlin and Brussels.Most notably, authorities have pressured social media giants such as Facebook and Twitter to tackle the spread of terrorist propaganda on their platforms.The extremist content discovered in the Europol-coordinated operation had been hosted on 52 social media platforms, the agency said. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2VzsA'Promote terrorism'Increased pressure from European governments and major technology companies to disrupt the militant group's online presence appear to have pushed the "Islamic State" and other terrorist organizations into darker corners of the internet."Efforts made by numerous online platforms to remove inappropriate content have driven supporters of terrorist groups to simultaneously use multiple platforms to promote terrorism and incite violence," Europol said in a statement."They have also been searching for new service provides to make sure their messages reach potential supporters, while a growing interest for platforms that do not require identification can be witnessed," the agency added.The "Islamic State" rose to notoriety in 2014, when it occupied large swathes of land across Iraq and Syria. Since then, it has launched terrorist attacks outside the Middle East, including in Europe, Asia and the Americas.Islamic State (IS) - also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh - is an al Qaeda splinter group with militant Sunni Islamist idealogy. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The group's goal is to create an Islamic state, or "caliphate", across Iraq, Syria and beyond.IS is believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world. It controls territory in Iraq and Syria, and its de facto capital is Raqqa, in Syria. However, the group has lost more than a quarter of its territory since January 2015. There are many groups involved in the fight against IS. The United States is leading air strikes by an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia has conducted air strikes in support of the Syrian government. Regional forces, such as the Kurdish Peshmerga (pictured above), are fighting on the ground.One of the group's main sources of income has been oil and gas - it still controls an estimated one third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led air strikes are deliberately targeting this valuable asset. Other means of income include taxes, ransoms and selling looted antiquities.IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The most deadly to date was a suicide bombing this year in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, in which more than 200 people died and many more were injured. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS can carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group.The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artefacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing", and thousands of women from religious minorites have been enslaved. The group also uses social media as a propaganda and recruitment tool.Around six million Syrians have fled abroad as a result of the ongoing conflict - many to neighboring Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, but also further afield to Europe. More than three million Iraqis have been displaced within the country. Author: Rachel Stewart ls/bw (Reuters, AP, AFP)