"Where's my iPhone 7?" says 17-year-old Chen Ting from Shanghai to her boyfriend. She's not looking for her phone though; she's asking about her Valentine's Day present. An iPhone 7 would mean her boyfriend really loves her.She's not alone among the generation aged between 17 and 37. The cheapest version of the iPhone 7 costs 700 euros and often the millennials' expectations do not end there. In China, a relationship costs money - to paraphrase the old adage that a relationship means work. You need deep pockets to keep the flame of eternal love burning. - Sieren's China: The battle for a more secure internet- Sieren's China: Clamping down on shared bikes- Sieren's China: Sober, but confidentIn stark contrast to a few years ago, when most 16-year-olds would not have been allowed to go on dates or think about relationships, no one wants to be without a boyfriend or a girlfriend now. Not so long ago, good grades at school and career prospects were much more important at that age. However, these did not leave much time for socializing or romance. So a whole generation of successful men and women in their late 20s emerged who had little experience of romance.Yet, the social pressure remained - if as a woman you're not married by 30, you're on the shelf. You can stop expecting expensive gifts."I love you"There's another reason for giving expensive gifts. These replace the open expression of feelings. It's not common for Chinese men to actually say the words "I love you". Imagine, if these were not reciprocated? That would mean losing face.DW's Frank Sieren is a China-based best-selling authorIn principle, it's expected that young men hoping to woo a young woman should be willing to spend about a quarter of their monthly salary on gifts. Some young men might do this for about six months, spending on average 10,000 yuan (1,300 euros, $1,460) without knowing if their "investment" in a woman will get them to their goal.China's equivalent of Valentine's Day is May 20. Instead of chocolate, flowers or cards, the most common gift is a red envelope containing 520 yuan. If you say the figures 520 aloud, they sound like the words "I love you". Thus, it becomes a romantic action to give money! Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2XW1lUsed to wealthThis generation is used to receiving love in the form of money. That's how their parents and grandparents showed them their love. Nothing was too expensive for these small tyrants.They were born when the country opened up economically. They know nothing of the hardships that their parents and grandparents suffered. Moreover, if they are middle-class and urban, their life is easier than that of their counterparts in the West. They do not have to pay off student loans, buy an apartment or build a house. Their grandparents or parents finance them. When a man gets married, he's expected to have an apartment already.The millennials are a generation of emperors and empresses familiar with gifts in red envelopes.This is unlikely to change for some time. The only thing that will change will be the question. From the fall onwards, young lovers will be asking about the "iPhone 8". All for love, of course.DW's correspondent, Frank Sieren, has been living in Beijing for the last 20 years.The French femme fatale and the most famous playboy of the day seemed to have been made for each other. In 1966, Sachs, the German son of an industrialist, showered the famous blonde actress and singer with 1,000 red roses in a dramatic marriage proposal. Though the couple divorced after just three years, the romantic gesture remains legendary.It was an arranged marriage, but Queen Victoria quickly fell head over heels for her husband, Albert. The couple was inseparable up until Albert's death in 1861. A decade later, Victoria commemorated her partner by opening a concert hall in his name, the world-renowned Royal Albert Hall in London. This family portrait was painted in 1846.Ken Morgan was a former bus driver and Shirley Morgan had been a conductor. They met over 61 years ago in a double-decker bus in England and it was love at first sight. They are still married after all these years - and still seem to be very much in love. As a sign of his affection, Ken presented Shirley with an unusual gift: He bought the bright red bus they had first met on.The tears streaming down the cheeks of the Irish singer will give you goose bumps. In the 1989 video "Nothing Compares to You," she sings about a lost love - one of the most emotional declarations of love in music history. The tears at the end of the video are real, O'Connor has often maintained - although they weren't shed for a man but for her deceased mother.In the comedy-drama by director Roberto Benigni, Italian Jew Guido and his wife and son are deported to a Nazi concentration camp and separated. His declaration of love for his wife Dora at the end of the film moved millions of viewers to tears. Over the loudspeakers at the camp, he said goodbye to his "principessa," sending her a message of hope. Pictured above is the German film poster. Author: Antje Binder (ct)