After the Islamic Hamas movement&nbsp;confirmed it would boycott the vote, Saturday'smunicipal elections across the West Bank were always going to serve as a litmus test for President Mahmoud Abbas (pictured) and his Fatah Party's popularity.Although it won easily, the Fatah Party's poor showing as results were released on Sunday reflected public discontent towards Abbas. The West Bank has for years been marred by a weak economy, while Abbas has allegedly allowed nepotism to flourish within his party's ranks and failed to move the Palestinian Territories&nbsp;any closer to independence after more than 10 years at the helm. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2XBjNAlthough Saturday's vote was the first legislative election in the West Bank in over a decade, turnout was low, with just 53 percent of eligible voters casting their ballots.Fatah only managed clear victories in two major cities: Jenin and Jericho. In Hebron, the West Bank's largest city and a Hamas stronghold, Abbas'&nbsp;party managed to claim seven of 15 seats."The result wasn't great for us," Tayseer Abu Sneineh, the head of Fatah's list in the city, told the Associated Press.The ruling party managed to win 11 of 15 seats in Nablus, another major city, but only after forming alliances with Islamist candidates. Turnout there was just 21 percent.Divided governmentsPalestine's two territories have remained politically divided since Hamas defeated Fatah in the 2006 legislative elections in the Gaza Strip. Fatah was subsequently driven out of the area, leaving Abbas in control of just the Palestinian Authority autonomy government in parts of the West Bank.Several attempts to reconcile have fallen short, and each party has been allowed to effectively rule its territory autonomously since.Last year, the two parties were poised to compete in elections in both the West Bank and Gaza Strip, before each side disqualified the other's candidate. Elections in Gaza were postponed and Fatah went ahead and ran unopposed in a bid to renew its legitimacy.Following Saturday's vote, Palestinian Central Elections Commission chairman Hanna Nasser said he would try to persuade&nbsp;Hamas to allow elections in all of Gaza's 25 localities later this year."The commission will meet with Hamas in Gaza to see if we can hold supplementary elections there so that we would have elections in all parts of the country," he said.United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on 22 November 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders.This picture, taken on March 26 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the peace treaty in Washington. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. This war eventually led to the peace talks which lasted 12 days and resulted in two agreements.The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions, which involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians, who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time, achieved little, although it did create the framework for later talks.Negotiations, which took place in Norway, between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) resulted in the first deal between the two sides, the Oslo Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period.US President, Bill Clinton, invited Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, and PLO Chairman, Yasser Arafat, to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees, and Jerusalem. Despite more detailed negotiations than ever before, no agreement was reached. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising.The Camp David negotiations were followed by meetings in Washington, then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt. They too were without results. Later, the Arab Peace Initiative was proposed in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to the lines of June 1967, so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries agreed to recognize Israel.The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. In June 2003, Prime Minister Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart Mahmoud Abbas, accepted the road map, with the Security Council also approving it in November. The timetable called for the final agreement to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented.In 2007, US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to re-launch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Olmert, and Palestinian Authority s President, Mahmoud Abbas, took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008.In 2010, special US Envoy George Mitchell s efforts led to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreeing to and implementing a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to re-launch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock.A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence, and eventually led to the launch of the Israeli military operation, Protective Edge, which ended with a ceasefire on 26 August 2014.Envoys from over 70 countries have gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu has slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives are attending the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said at the opening of the event. Author: Aasim Saleem dm/cmk&nbsp;(AP, dpa)