Venezuela's president, Nicolas Maduro, late on Thursday abruptly dismissed Health Minister Antonieta Caporale, just days after the government broke a two-year silence on statistics to reveal the extent of the country's deepening health crisis.Ministry figures released this week revealed that there were just under 11,500&nbsp;cases of child mortality&nbsp;in 2016 -&nbsp;a 30 percent climb on the previous&nbsp;year. Data also showed that cases of maternal deaths, or deaths while pregnant or within 42 days after giving birth, rose by over 65 percent last year to 756 cases. Malaria cases&nbsp;, also thought to have been eradicated in Venezuela, rose by more than 75 percent from the year before, affecting almost 250,000 people.Read more: Venezuela sees a sharp rise in child mortalitiesMeanwhile, the Venezuelan Medical Federation has warned that&nbsp;hospitals face extreme shortages, with some reporting that they have only 3-percent of the necessary supplies&nbsp;and medicines needed to run normally.Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands have taken to the streets in the weeks since to call for new elections. They show no signs of stopping.As of March, Venezuela's inflation rate surpassed 220 percent, according to the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics. The country's largest bill - the 100 bolivar note - was worth just $0.04 at the end of last year. Shopping trips now require stacks, or even bags, of cash to buy the bare necessities.An estimated 80 percent of food items and other basics were in short supply by last year. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally can enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement.In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen otherwise only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever.Electricity blackouts and fuel shortages have also driven Venezuelans to desperation. Despite Venezuela's possession of the world's largest oil reserves, drivers face long lines at the gas pump. A 50-percent collapse in oil prices in 2014 devastated the oil-dependent economy. In 2013, revenues were $80 billion. That figure dropped to $20 billion by 2016, according to IMF figures.Lower poverty rates, better education and health, and economic growth: These are all part of the legacy of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Equally part of the socialist's legacy was mismanagement. Not only did he fail to keep the state oil company up to date under increased government control, but his government also overspent despite a drop in oil production after 2006.Chavez's hand-picked successor, Nicolas Maduro, has been in office for four years and has two more to go. The opposition center-right coalition, which has controlled the National Assembly since 2015, has accused him of "abandoning his post" by failing to stem the economic devastation. It has also denounced him for rights abuses.The most recent example of Maduro's rights abuses was to silence opposition leader, Henrique Capriles, pictured above. In early April, Capriles was banned from seeking public office for 15 years due to "administrative irregularities" in his role as a governor. Capriles had been at the forefront of demands for a referendum on Maduro. The ban further inflamed tensions with protesters.Aside from protests, the opposition collected 2 million signatures for a referendum last year, roughly 10 times the number required. And in a move against the Supreme Court - and in lieu of impeachment hearings - it also held a symbolic trial for Maduro. Numerous attempts to stymie its attempts to pressure the government have only emboldened these lawmakers.Last September saw some 1 million Venezuelans march on Caracas. The opposition hopes April 19 protests - "the mother of all protests" to coincide with Maduro's fourth annivesary - will be even bigger. Meanwhile, the international community looks on with concern. The Organization for American States is mulling a suspension for Venezuela unless it calls elections to emerge from "dictatorship." Author: Kathleen Schuster Motive for dismissal unknownCaporale, a trained gynecologist, is to be replaced by Luis Lopez, a pharmacist.Caporale only took over the role as health minister in January, although the data referred to 2016. Her dismissal was therefore widely thought to have been related to the health data being released to the public.Announcing the ministerial switch, Vice President Tareck El Aissami declined to answer why Caporale had been dismissed. Later, on Twitter, he wrote that "President Nicolas Maduro is grateful to Doctor Antonieta Caporale for her work."Francisco Valencia, director of the non-government Coalition of Organizations for the Right to Health and Life, tweeted on Thursday: "Yet another new health minister. What a disaster this government is! Replacing the health minister has become like changing your socks."Once the region's most prosperous country, recession and currency controls have&nbsp;slashed Venezuela's supply of medicines and vaccines, as well as basic provisions such as food and hygiene products.&nbsp;Doctors have also emigrated in droves, leaving patients with second-rate health treatment, if any at all.Venezuela also faces a major political crisis, with deadly anti-government protests having paralyzed most of the country for more than a month.&nbsp;The opposition blames Maduro and his government's economic mismanagement&nbsp;for the country's widespread crisis.&nbsp;Maduro, meanwhile, has pointed the finger at external forces seeking to unseat him when explaining the crisis.dm/kms&nbsp;(Reuters, AFP) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cpEt