The leader of the UN-backed Libya unity government and an opposing military commander said Wednesday they agreed to end the crises plaguing the nation since the Arab Spring.In separate statements, Government of National Accord (GNA) leader Fayez al-Sarraj and Field Marshal Khalifa Haftar, whose self-proclaimed Libyan National Army (LNA) controls many important oil ports in eastern Libya, called for an end to the political and economic crises in the country. Their statements did not explain any concrete measures to end the crises.Opinion: Good will alone will not help LibyaFor more than 40 years, Moammar Gadhafi was the eccentric strongman in power in Libya. He was known for his odd behavior - and for his regime's ties to international terror groups. Libya was one of the countries swept up by the Arab Spring, and protests eventually turned into a civil war. Gadhafi fled but was eventually captured and killed In October, 2011.After Gadhafi fell, the eyes of the world were on Libya in the hope that the country would have a smooth transition to democracy. By July 2012, democratic parliamentary elections had taken place, but it proved to be a challenge for the country's politicians to form a coalition and compromise on issues that would bring further stability.Another problem facing Libya in the post-Gadhafi era was the rise of violent militias. While various armed groups did band together to topple the dictator, they did not have a common cause to rally around after his death. Instead, they fought each other. Terrorist groups were also on the rise in Libya, and staged a deadly attack on the US embassy in Benghazi on September 11, 2012.Political divisions became deeper in the years following Gadhafi's ouster. The UN-backed Government of National Accord (GNA) is the internationally-recognized authority in Libya, but several factions on the ground are claiming a hold on power. Jihadist groups including the so-called 'Islamic State' have gained a significant foothold in the country, making any progress precarious.In recent weeks, Libya has reached out to NATO for assistance in strengthening the country's security institutions in an effort to end the power struggle between competing governments and militias. Leaders of two of the biggest groups - the GNA and the self-proclaimed Libyan National Army LNA - called for an end to the political and economic crises in the country. Author: Matt Zuvela Good meeting in United Arab EmiratesAl-Sarraj's statement said Tuesday's meeting with Haftar in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Tuesday was held in order "to achieve a peaceful settlement for the Libyan crisis." The GNA leader stressed the need for "upholding the goals of the February revolution" against previous leader Muammar Gaddafi, who was ousted and killed during the Arab Spring in October 2011.Haftar said in the statement issued by the LNA that both the GNA and LNA agreed to allow "the military establishment to fully play its role in the fight against terrorism." The statement, shared by pro-Haftar media focused on protecting the army and "the need to work to address the proliferation of armed formations."Observers and diplomats who were at Tuesday's meeting described it as positive after Al-Sarraj said&nbsp;Haftar refused to meet him in February. The UAE foreign ministry said the meeting brought "optimism towards guaranteeing a political solution."Read: Europol probes 'Islamic State'-created social media networkIt took over seven months of fighting to free Sirte from 'IS' controlMuch work to be doneBoth Al-Sarraj and Hafter agreed to end the violence in southern Libya, where their forces fought in April near an air base on the edge of Sebha.The GNA has struggled to maintain control over the country since it was created in a UN-mediated deal in 2015. Haftar opponents have claimed the LNA is attempting to create a new military dictatorship. Haftar's LNA is backed by the country's parliament in the east, as well as the UAE and Egypt. The GNA said the UAE and Egypt, as well as Algeria and Tunisia play a role in "reconciling the points of view" of Haftar and the LNA.Should the GNA and LNA produce a roadmap towards peace, factions on the ground can place serious opposition to any plan.kbd/bw&nbsp;(AFP, Reuters)