On Wednesday, US President Donald Trump wrote on Twitter that he would announce his decision on the US's participation in the Paris climate accord "over the next few days."After G7 talks last week, many fear that Trump will withdraw the United States from the pact. He campaigned on the notion that global warming is a hoax perpetrated by fiendish foreign rivals to hamper US trade. Trump's predecessor, Barack Obama, had helped negotiate the accord in Paris in 2015. - The battle for Trump's mind on climate- Trump joins G7 summit on climate, trade and terror- Merkel: Europe can no longer rely on USAn anonymous White House official told the Associated Press that Trump was expected to withdraw from the agreement, but said there may be "caveats in the language" that Trump uses, leaving open the possibility that a decision wouldn't be final.Several US news outlets incuding Politico and Axios cited unnamed White House officials for reports that Trump was planning to pull out of the deal.Axios reported that the White House would either withdraw through a formal process of leaving the agreement or by canceling the UN climate treaty on which the Paris deal is based.'Europe ready to show leadership'European Commission Vice President Maros Sefcovic said in Brussels that a US withdrawal would be disappointing but that the European Union stands ready to take global leadership on the issue."If they decide to withdraw, it would be disappointing, but I do not believe this will change the course of history," Sefcovic said."There is a much stronger expectation from our partners across the world from Africa, Asia and China that Europe should assume leadership in this effort and we are ready to do that."Both the EU and China will reaffirm their commitment to the Paris climate change accord this week regardless of Trump's decision, Associated Press and AFP news agencies reported, citing senior EU officials.Chinese Premier Li Keqiang was due to meet EU president Donald Tusk and European Commission head Jean-Claude Juncker on Thursday with hopes of forging an answer to Trump's "America First" challenge.'Big setback'United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called on the world to intensify action to combat climate change in a speech Tuesday."Climate change is undeniable. Climate change is unstoppable. Climate solutions provide opportunities that are unmatchable," he said.France's ambassador to the US said on Wednesday that the Paris climate change deal does not infringe on US sovereignty."The Paris accord is a political agreement. It doesn't infringe on US sovereignty. National commitments are voluntary and may be amended," Ambassador Gerard Araud said in a tweet, adding that major American corporations had expressed their support for the deal.Finnish Prime Minister Juha Sipila told his country's parliament Wednesday that a US withdrawal would be a big setback."If this is true, it is a big setback. Then, we must find partners to continue, because this work must not stop," he said, adding that climate change was a priority for Finland in the Arctic Council as well as the EU.Climate change deniers in chargeUpon assuming the presidency, Trump set about installing climate change deniers to the US's highest environmental posts. He has been supported in his efforts by large corporations that deal and coal and petroleum and several prominent Republicans, including the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell.The deal would limit warming through a concentrated effort to cut emissions of carbon dioxide and other harmful gases. The United States is the world's second largest emitter, after China, which has four times the population. Canada, China, the EU member states and other countries whose efforts to limit global warming are crucial have pledged to remain true to their commitments. At the moment, the only nations that have declined to endorse the pact agreed to by 195 countries are Nicaragua and Syria.During last week's summits in Europe, international leaders and even Pope Francis urged Trump not to renege on the deal.US President Donald Trump has offered both candid praise and unabashed criticism of Germany and its policies. From calling German Chancellor Angela Merkel as "possibly the greatest world leader" to describing her open-door refugee policy as a "catastrophic mistake," here are his most memorable quotes regarding Germany."Germany's like sitting back silent, collecting money and making a fortune with probably the greatest leader in the world today, Merkel," Trump said in a 2015 interview with US news magazine Time."The Germans are bad, very bad ... Look at the millions of cars they sell in the US. Terrible. We'll stop that," Trump said during a NATO leaders summit, according to German news magazine Der Spiegel, which cited sources at the alliance's meeting."As far as wiretapping, I guess, by - you know - [the Obama] administration, at least we have something in common, perhaps," Trump said in March during a press conference with Merkel. He was referring to his unproven allegations that ex-President Barack Obama tapped his phone. There was widespread anger in Germany in 2013 when it was revealed the US National Security Agency tapped Merkel's phone."I think she made one very catastrophic mistake and that was taking all of these illegals (sic), you know taking all of the people from wherever they come from," Trump said in a joint interview published by German daily Bild and British newspaper The Times, referring to Merkel's open-door policy for refugees fleeing war and persecution."Despite what you have heard from the fake news, I had a great meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Nevertheless, Germany owes vast sums of money to NATO and the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany," Trump said in a two-tweet statement after meeting with Merkel for the first time in March. Author: Lewis Sanders IV aw,mkg/rt (Reuters, AFP, AP, dpa)