In the age of President Trump it is necessary to preface this article with a disclaimer. As potentially game-changing developments are always only a presidential tweet away, the information in this article is correct as of the middle of the president's first foreign trip. Various investigations into the Trump campaign are, of course, still ongoing.When the Justice Department appointed a Special Council to investigate President Trump campaign's possible connections to Russia, speculation about a presidential impeachment or some other way of removing Trump from office reached fever pitch in the US and around the world.According to a recent poll, two-thirds of Germans don't think Donald Trump won't finish his first term. And in the US, many politicians, pundits and experts mused about impeachment, which is significant in itself.- What you need to know about special counsel Mueller's investigation into the Trump campaign- Trump asked ex-FBI chief to drop Flynn probe- Opinion: A hint of Watergate Call for impeachmentBut importantly, while talk was rife about impeachment in the capital there were only a few outright calls to impeach President Trump and only one from a member of the House of Representatives. The sole lawmaker in the House to demand impeachment was Al Green of Texas - a Democrat.These facts are essential because a single majority vote in the House is required to launch impeachment proceedings. Republicans currently hold a 238 to 193 majority in the House. The actual impeachment would then be conducted by the Senate, where Republicans currently hold a smaller 52-48 majority.To force a president out of office, however, requires a two-third Senate majority. And while some key Republican Senators like John McCain have clearly distanced themselves from Trump, ousting him would require a vote of 67 senators. That is and was designed to be a tough obstacle to get rid of a president.The firing of FBI director James Comey and its aftermath have fueled speculation about a possible impeachmentPolitical processEqually important is the fact that while the notion of an impeachment process - as well as the frequently cited obstruction of justice charge leveled as justification to begin such a process - give the impression that an impeachment is a legal process, it isn't. It is a political process raised and decided by politicians.Republicans hold not only both houses of Congress but, for the first time in eight years, the White House as well. For them to have to decide to throw one of their own under bus would amount to a train wreck of epic proportions."Congressional Republicans will try and stay with President Trump as long as they can if they think they can achieve some notable legislative achievement," said Reed Galen, a Republican strategist, who worked on the campaigns of John McCain, Arnold Schwarzenegger and George W. Bush.While rapper Jay Z is working on a six-episode documentary series on racial inequality in Trump's America, other recent background films can help us grasp the issues the US president has been dealing with for the past 100 days. Other documentaries reveal how his political circle is organized - and how he ticks. The first season of this political docu-series followed the 2016 presidential race. Now in its second season, this Showtime program covers Trump's first 100 days in office by exploring the stories behind the headlines. A feature film made out of the material collected during season one of "The Circus," entitled "Trumped: Inside the Greatest Political Upset of All Time," also premiered at Sundance.This documentary on Trump's adviser and longtime Republican operative, Roger Stone, premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival before its upcoming Netflix release on May 12. The man has been influencing US politics for decades - for the worse, just like a "malevolent Forrest Gump," says journalist Jeffrey Toobin in the film. The backgrounder reveals how deeply interconnected Stone and Trump are. BBC director Adam Curtis (pictured) is renowned for his cult signature style, combining weird archive footage with overarching historical storytelling. When he released "HyperNormalisation" in October 2016, a 165-minute film charting the rise of post-truth politics, he was criticized for focusing on Donald Trump - then still believed to be a short-lived phenomenon. Who were those critics again? Shortly before his 100th day in office, Trump postponed funding to his US-Mexico border wall to avoid a spending freeze. Fiercely opposed by many politicians, it remains to be seen if his campaign pledge will ever be fulfilled. In the meantime, further arguments against it are found in "La Frontera," which follows a man walking along the whole border, meeting the people who live and work there.The trailer for this follow-up to former Vice President's Al Gore's "An Inconvenient Truth" came out on March 28, opening with Trump complaining he wished for more global warming. That same day, the US president signed an executive order curbing the enforcement of climate regulations - and added two more in that vein just before reaching his 100-day mark. The film hits theaters on July 28.Another one of Trump's main campaign promises was to repeal the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. That hasn't worked out yet, as the president failed to secure his party members' vote last March for a replacement plan. A short Vox documentary meets Trump voters in the sate of Kentucky - people who directly benefited from the plan - to understand what they were hoping for. "You've Been Trumped" (2011) featured Trump's construction of a luxury golf course on a Scottish coastline and the ensuing disputes he had with the local residents. Refusing to sell their land, a family had their water supply cut off - an ongoing situation, as this follow-up film shows. The documentary "reveals the corporate, sociopathic nature of Trump's political vision," writes "The Guardian."Trump's first months of presidency were also overshadowed by FBI inquiries into Russia's possible intervention in the elections. This is part of Oscar-winner Laura Poitras' new film on Wikileaks founder Julian Assange, "Risk." Following the US Justice Department's recent declaration that his arrest was a "priority," the filmmaker is now updating the doc just before its theatrical release on May 5.One of Trump's unusually more popular moves since January was the airstrike on Syria - which, however, didn't impact the country's ability to wage war. Trump's failed travel ban is more emblematic of his views towards Muslim refugees. A must-see film for him to change that will be "City of Ghosts," described as "the definitive Syria documentary" by "The Guardian." It will be released on July 7. Author: Elizabeth Grenier Sticking with Trump"I think most Republicans will stick with Trump because they don't have any choice," concurred John Feehery, a fellow Republican strategist who worked for key GOP leaders in the House of Representatives for almost two decades.That is not to say that many Republicans do not have serious concerns about Trump and how he conducts himself in office. But as long as he can somehow help them pass key Republican promises like lowering taxes or abolishing "Obamacare" they are reluctant to cut him loose.Despite the president's numerous controversial actions since taking office, including his contentious firing of the FBI director and his reported justification for it, impeaching Trump is not on the Republican agenda yet.- What happens now that Trump fired the head of the FBI?- Ex-FBI chief declines invitation to testify on Russia probeOther concerns"I don't think we are close to that point right now", said Feehery. "Most Americans are more concerned with health care and the economy than they care about the nonsense that has overwhelmed Washington.""There is still a wide chasm between Republicans staying away from Trump and the majorities in both houses deciding first to impeach Donald Trump and then to actually convict and remove him", said Galen. "Removing a sitting president is a massive undertaking and extremely unsettling political event."That doesn't mean, however, that Republican lawmakers, even many archconservatives in the House, don't have a breaking point when they would be ready to cut Trump loose. Ultimately, noted Galen, Republican members of Congress have one goal - to remain members of Congress.Many Congressional Republicans have misgivings about Trump, but stick with him anway as long as he supports their agendaCollusion as breaking point"If those members in vulnerable districts see Trump as an albatross, they'll run away from him", he said. But then again Republicans running away from Trump is very different from Republicans impeaching him.Currently, said Feehery, that's only imaginable in one very specific scenario."If there is actually evidence of collusion with the President and the Russians and that collusion was against the law, I think the President would be in big trouble," he said. "But absent that, I don't see him going anywhere."