The reconstruction of the Hohenzollern dynasty's residence in the center of eastern Berlin has been a bone of contention ever since Germany was reunited in 1989-90. The latest chapter in the conflict was opened when left-wing politicians objected to plans to crown the building's dome with a golden cross. That, they argued, contradicted the Stadtschloss's future function as a home for the secular Humboldt Forum."It's supposed to be a public building that's inviting to everyone," Left Party culture spokeswoman Sigrid Hupach told the newspaper Die Welt. "How can an open dialogue between cultures take place if a cross atop the dome already sets the tone?"On the other side are arguments that Christianity is an intrinsic part of the humanistic tradition of the West and that Germany should not deny parts of its past. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1GDh7"The idea of offering a house open to all, as the Humboldt Forum wants to be, is only plausible if we're conscious of our own roots and display them," Germany's conservative Culture Ministry Monika Gr tters told Die Welt. "Our culture of openness, freedom and sympathy with others has its roots in our Christian ideas of humanity. For me that's what the cross stands for, and that's why I think it's part of the palace."Should there be a cross on the Schloss? To answer that question it's helpful to look back at the history of both the city palace and the reconstruction project.The dome and the cross were added at a relatively late point in the palace's historyAn oft unloved palaceThe original palace on the site was built in 1441 and was later expanded in the renaissance and baroque styles. The dome was constructed between 1845 and 1853 by the architect who had a greater influence on Berlin than any other, Karl Friedrich Schinkel. Members of the Hohenzollern dynasty, however, traditionally preferred to reside in nearby Potsdam. The palace was badly damaged in World War II and was demolished in 1950 by Communist East Germany, which built its modernist national parliament building, the Palace of the Republic, on the site. With the end of the Cold War and the demise of East Germany, calls immediately came to reconstruct the Stadtschloss and restore the historic architectural ensemble near Alexanderplatz, which also includes the Berlin Cathedral and the National Gallery.Politicians were initially skeptical, fearing high costs and questioning the usefulness of such a reconstruction. As well, many people argued that the communist Palace of the Republic should be preserved for its historic importance. But private citizens' initiatives kept pushing for the Stadtschloss to be rebuilt, collecting millions of marks to that end.A German version of the British MuseumThe breakthrough came in 2002, when the Bundestag agreed to the reconstruction after a number of compromises had been reached. The facade of the Stadtschloss would be reconstructed, but the interior would be modern. The 552 million euro ($618) cost was to be borne by a public-private partnership with national and local governments putting up the lion's share of the money (ca. 515 million euros) and private donations financing the facades. And the reconstructed building would be used for exhibitions by the Humboldt Forum.Communist East Germany demolished what it saw as a symbol of monarchist exploitationNot to be confused with the venerable Humboldt Foundation, the Humboldt Forum is a new museum project focusing on non-European art and world cultures. It's modeled on the British Museum and France's Centre Pompidou. In keeping with this orientation, its first artistic director is former British Museum head Neil MacGregor.The Palace of the Republic was torn down between 2006 and 2008, and work on the reconstruction commenced in 2013. The building is scheduled to be completed next year, with the first exhibits opening in 2019. But criticism of the project still hasn't died down entirely.The sign of the cross?Normally, religious symbols on reconstructed landmarks don't cause significant controversy. But because of its history and the fact that it's not an exact historical replica, there is an onus on the Stadtschloss to be a site of intercultural community."Under the sign of the cross?" wrote the Stiftung Zukunft Berlin in its statement. "That sounds very nineteenth century, when Christianity was the dominant culture."The reconstruction blends historic and modern elementsThe Green Party's parliamentary leader in the Berlin Senate, Antje Kapek, supported that position, questioning whether private donations should be used to put up a Christian symbol."Reducing the Humboldt Forum to representing one religion would contradict its basic humanistic idea and be wrong," Kapek told Die Welt, "The new Berlin Stadtschloss is supposed to encourage exchanges between all cultures. And the donations were supposed to be used for the facades."But others see the objections as instances of overblown political correctness, with no reason to enforce a strict separation of church and Schloss."The double purpose of the new Berlin palace apparently is too much of an intellectual challenge for some people today," wrote Die Welt newspaper in an editorial. "The use of the building looks toward a future of an increasingly tighter-knit, globalized world while the exterior looks back at centuries of German history. You can't just trim the details of this splendid baroque work of art to fit current fashions of political correctness."Supporters of the cross say that the donors specifically want the external details to match those of the past. The cross, which will cost around one million euros, will be financed by a donation made by the widow of a mail-order catalogue magnate. A prestige project of East Germany, the Palace of the Republic opened on April 23, 1976 after a 32-month construction period. The building with its golden brown mirrored front housed not only the former East German Parliament, it also played host to rock concerts, theater productions and fashion shows. With its foyers, restaurants and a large event hall, the building served as a cultural palace.Thanks to its opulent lighting and pompous d cor, the Palace of the Republic earned the nicknames "Palazzo Prozzo" or "Erich's Lighting Shop" - a play on Erich Honecker, the then-general secretary of the ruling party's (SED) central committee. In 1990, the building was closed by East Germany's first democratically elected parliament after just 14 years in use. The reason: toxic asbestos.On January 19, 2006 the third and final decision for the building's demolition was taken. The German Bundestag called for the establishment of a new cultural forum in the heart of Berlin.Although the building should have disappeared from the skyline by the beginning of 2007, asbestos removal proved more difficult than anticipated. In pushing back the original schedule, the demolition went over budget, increasing costs by tens of millions of euros.After the palace's closure in 1990, the building was slowly taken apart, leaving an empty shell behind. When the demolition began in spring of 2006, over 500 tons of glass, 20,000 tons of steel, and 56,000 tons of concrete had to be hauled away.With the last section of the building removed at the end of 2008, demolition took longer than the 32 months required for its construction. The concrete hole left behind had to be filled with more than 100,000 cubic meters of sand in order to keep the Berlin Cathedral located opposite from tilting.Whether or not to demolish the Palace of the Republic and reconstruct the historical Berlin City Palace, which had stood at that location from 1443 until 1950, was a topic of hot debate for years. What statement would be made in doing so? Would Germany be erasing a part of its own history?Shortly after the Palace of the Republic disappeared, the lot was spruced up with green. In 2011, the temporary Humboldt Box was erected, a small info center with models and interactive exhibits where Berliners and visitors to the city alike can have a look at plans for the Berlin City Palace and the Humboldt Forum.And there it is: the unfinished concrete fixture that is the Berlin City Palace. Already, the palace has cost the state 590 million euros. Its baroque facade, which will cost 80 million euros, will be financed entirely via donations. By 2019, it should finally play host to Humboldt Forum exhibitions, theater productions and international conferences. Author: Jan Bruck / cat