Woods, currently sidelined from competition after having his fourth back surgery in April, said in a statement on Monday he took full responsibility for his actions and apologised to his family, friends and fans."I want the public to know that alcohol was not involved. What happened was an unexpected reaction to prescribed medications," he said. "I didn t realize the mix of medications had affected me so strongly."The TMZ.com entertainment news website had earlier cited law enforcement sources as saying that Woods was stopped after being spotted "driving erratically, all over the road." The website said the golfer refused to blow into a breathalyzer.The 14-time major winner was taken into custody near his South Florida home at about 3 a.m. local time (0700 UST) before being released with no bond hours later, according to US broadcaster WPTV - an NBC affilate.Short term goalsLast week Woods said he felt as good as he had in years and had no plans to retire despite his time on the course being severely restricted by a back injury of late."Presently, I'm not looking ahead," the 41-year-old wrote on his website. "I can't twist for another two and a half to three months. Right now, my sole focus is rehab and doing what the doctors tell me. I am concentrating on short-term goals."Woods playing at a Pro-Am in the Bahamas last NovemberFollowing a brief comeback that was halted again by injury in February, Woods underwent a fourth operation on his back last month. He had spinal fusion surgery on April 20. Woods wrote on his website last week: "My surgeon and physiotherapist say the operation was successful. It's just a matter of not screwing up and letting it fuse." "I'm walking and doing my exercises, and taking my kids to and from school. All I can do is take it day by day," he wrote last week before his arrest. "There's no hurry. But, I want to say unequivocally, I want to play professional golf again."Woods also made headlines in 2009 when allegations about affairs with several women ultimately led to the end of his marriage.Woods has not featured in a major since the 2015 PGA Championship, when he missed the cut. He also missed the cut in that year's British and US Opens.jbh/jm (Reuters/DPA)