Venezuela's famed conductor Gustavo Dudamel on Thursday lashed out at the government's violent repression of mass protests in the capital after a 17-year-old musician was killed&nbsp;at an anti-government rally."I urgently call on the President of the Republic and the national government to rectify and listen to the voice of the Venezuelan people," Dudamel said in a statement posted on his Facebook page.The 17-year-old Armando Canizalel, who was killed at the demonstration was a viola player and member of the government-financed "El Sistema" musical education program that brought Dudamel to fame.The "El Sistema" program, originally created four decades ago, connects&nbsp;poor Venezuelan children with classical music. Dudamel, who serves as the musical director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, has often toured with "El Sistema" youth orchestras."Times cannot be defined by the blood of our people. We owe our youth a hopeful world, a country where we can walk freely in dissent," Dudamel added. "It is time to listen to the people: enough is enough."Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands have taken to the streets in the weeks since to call for new elections. They show no signs of stopping.As of March, Venezuela's inflation rate surpassed 220 percent, according to the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics. The country's largest bill - the 100 bolivar note - was worth just $0.04 at the end of last year. Shopping trips now require stacks, or even bags, of cash to buy the bare necessities.An estimated 80 percent of food items and other basics were in short supply by last year. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally can enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement.In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen otherwise only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever.Electricity blackouts and fuel shortages have also driven Venezuelans to desperation. Despite Venezuela's possession of the world's largest oil reserves, drivers face long lines at the gas pump. A 50-percent collapse in oil prices in 2014 devastated the oil-dependent economy. In 2013, revenues were $80 billion. That figure dropped to $20 billion by 2016, according to IMF figures.Lower poverty rates, better education and health, and economic growth: These are all part of the legacy of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Equally part of the socialist's legacy was mismanagement. Not only did he fail to keep the state oil company up to date under increased government control, but his government also overspent despite a drop in oil production after 2006.Chavez's hand-picked successor, Nicolas Maduro, has been in office for four years and has two more to go. The opposition center-right coalition, which has controlled the National Assembly since 2015, has accused him of "abandoning his post" by failing to stem the economic devastation. It has also denounced him for rights abuses.The most recent example of Maduro's rights abuses was to silence opposition leader, Henrique Capriles, pictured above. In early April, Capriles was banned from seeking public office for 15 years due to "administrative irregularities" in his role as a governor. Capriles had been at the forefront of demands for a referendum on Maduro. The ban further inflamed tensions with protesters.Aside from protests, the opposition collected 2 million signatures for a referendum last year, roughly 10 times the number required. And in a move against the Supreme Court - and in lieu of impeachment hearings - it also held a symbolic trial for Maduro. Numerous attempts to stymie its attempts to pressure the government have only emboldened these lawmakers.Last September saw some 1 million Venezuelans march on Caracas. The opposition hopes April 19 protests - "the mother of all protests" to coincide with Maduro's fourth annivesary - will be even bigger. Meanwhile, the international community looks on with concern. The Organization for American States is mulling a suspension for Venezuela unless it calls elections to emerge from "dictatorship." Author: Kathleen Schuster Ally turned criticDudamel had previously come under criticism from fellow Venezuelan music performers for having a cozy relationship with President Nicolas Maduro and failing to denounce his dictatorial behavior.In 2014, the composed conducted a commemorative concert in central Caracas, blocks away from deadly anti-government protests. Days after the clashes, in which a student was killed, he appeared alongside Maduro for a meeting on the construction of a new concert hall.However, Dudamel's latest remarks appear to show a shift from the prolific conductor. Since releasing his statement condemning the violence, opposition leaders have lauded Dudamel's move.Growing protestsVenezuela has been rocked by deadly protests since the Supreme Court attempted to strip the opposition-held Congress of legislative power. At least 36 people have been killed since the unrest began in late March.The protests have brought together thousands of Venezuelans against Maduro's government. Many have been angered by the president's increasingly dictatorial measures, while others have participated in the protests to vent frustration over crippling shortages of food, medicine and other basic goods.On Monday, Maduro announced plans to establish a new constituent assembly tasked with rewriting the constitution, a move that has further exacerbated tensions on the ground.ls/bw (Reuters, AP)