For the last six years, Boyan Slat has been working toward making a dream into reality. Now, at least two years ahead of his initial schedule, the Dutch entrepreneur is preparing to launch a revolutionary system that is designed to clean the world's oceans of discarded plastic.With more than five trillion pieces of plastic littering the seas - and increasingly breaking down and entering the food chain - Slat agrees that it is a momentous undertaking. But he is confident that enhancements to the design of the equipment used by his company, The Ocean Cleanup, will enable the system to remove 50 percent of the Great Pacific Garbage Patch in just five years.Our oceans have become one massive rubbish dump. The waste, whether the size of a bus or a microorganism, is dangerous - and not only for marine life. But people are working to clear it up. (13.10.2015) Tiny particles, bags, bottles: When plastic lands in the ocean, it harms wildlife and the environment. But how much plastic does end up there, and where does it come from? An overview of problems and solutions. (30.12.2016) At the World Economic Forum in Davos, major corporations have signed on to an initiative to better reuse and recycle plastic packaging - to reap economic benefits, and in hopes of stemming an environmental crisis. (17.01.2017) Millions of tons of plastic are dumped into the ocean each year. But where does it end up? A UK initiative is deploying drones to find out. (30.03.2017) To give some idea of the scale of the task, estimates put the debris field located between the coast of California and the Hawaiian Islands at between 700,000 square kilometers and 15 million square kilometers. Similar patches of waste blight other oceans, but the one in the Pacific is the most expansive.And every year, a further 8 million tons of plastic is dumped into the world's oceans, Slat points out, "which is the equivalent volume of two Empire State Buildings every week."Oceans in crisisSlat was first confronted by the crisis facing the planet's seas on a summer holiday to Greece at the age of 16. Instead of a clear blue sea inhabited by multi-colored fish, he discovered shards of plastic in the waves and on the sand.Two years later, at the age of 18, he dropped out of a degree in aerospace engineering after just six months to set up The Ocean Cleanup. Based in the Dutch city of Delft, the foundation set about testing Slat's proposal for a startlingly simple solution to the problem of plastic pollution.Efforts to date to cleanse the oceans of plastic have been based on ships crisscrossing the polluted areas and collecting debris as they go. According to simulations, that approach to the problem will take 79,000 years and an undeterminable amount of money.Slat's answer is the Ocean Cleanup Array, a boom that extends for many kilometers on the surface of the ocean and takes advantage of currents and winds that bring plastic debris into the arms. The plastic is then funneled to collecting points on the boom, where it is gathered and stored until a large amount has been collected and can be shipped away for recycling.The Ocean Cleanup wants to use a boom that extends for many kilometers on the surface of the ocean and takes advantage of currents and winds that bring plastic debris into the armsThe plastic is then funneled to collecting points on the boom, where it is gathered and stored until a large amount has been collected and can be shipped away for recyclingOvercoming challengesThe foundation has faced huge obstacles in the years since the project began - including whether to attach the array to the seabed or to let it drift, with collection efficiency, maritime law, the quality and recyclability of the plastic recovered - but Slat is confident that he will be ready to start extracting plastic from the Pacific within the next 12 months.Unveiling the latest refinement to the technology in Utrecht on May 11, Slat announced that the first trial system would be installed off the west coast of the United States by the end of 2017 and a full-scale device would be deployed amid the Great Pacific Garbage Patch in the first half of 2018 - two years ahead of schedule."The clean-up of the world's oceans is just around the corner," said Slat, with four 12-meter sea anchors for the system towering over him. "Due to our attitude of 'testing to learn' until the technology is proven, I am confident that - with our expert partners - we will succeed in our mission."Speaking subsequently with DW, Slat said the design has moved away from a system tethered to the seabed and has instead made progress with a floating system that uses sea anchors to ensure that the floating booms move more slowly than the plastic.And instead of one huge barrier - one design was for a boom 100 kilometers from tip to tip - the improved modular system consists of a "fleet" of smaller screens, he added.At least 8 million tons of plastic waste ends up in the world's oceans every year, according to a report by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. The report warns plastic trash will outweigh fish by 2050 unless drastic action is taken. Much of the floating trash collects in several large ocean vortices far from land. Beaches, like this one on Midway Island in the remote Pacific Ocean, also suffer.The floating plastic isn't just an eyesore: as it breaks down into smaller pieces, marine animals mistake it for food. A recent study by Uppsala University showed ingesting plastic can have devastating effects on fish, including stunted growth and increased mortality rates. Surprisingly, some fish even seem to prefer plastic. Plastic in fish is also suspected of posing health risks for humans.The Ocean Conservancy estimates more than 690 species of marine animals have been affected by plastic pollution. In an effort to reduce the impact of all that waste, some companies have come up with alternatives. The Delray Beach craft brewery, in Florida, has developed edible six-pack rings from wheat and barley left over from the brewing process. It hopes to begin production in October.As an alternative to single-use plastic packaging - which makes up a significant portion of the waste found in oceans - some companies have come up with biodegradable alternatives. At a plant in Poland, wheat bran is being used. According to inventor Jerzy Wysocki, the Biotrem packaging can be used in the oven or freezer, and will decompose in 30 days - or can simply be eaten. Extra fiber!Fast-growing bamboo is also an alternative to plastic - used to make everything from toothbrushes, shower curtains, utensils and even computer parts. Work at the Tonggu Jiangqiao Bamboo &amp; Wood Industry Company, pictured here, started mass production of bamboo keyboards, mice and monitor casings in 2008.Alternatives may help reduce waste, but millions of tons of plastic still float around the world's oceans - and will remain for centuries, slowly breaking down. Dutch foundation Ocean Cleanup aims to collect the trash with a 100-kilometer (60-mile) floating dam system that is supposed to trap plastic waste without harming fish and other sea creatures. It aims to install one in the Pacific by 2020.Some of that plastic could be recycled and reused in other forms, becoming flower pots, home insulation or - in the case of Spanish firm Ecoalf - clothing. The Madrid-based clothing line takes plastic waste collected by 200 fishing boats in the Mediterranean, crushes it into flakes, and then creates polyester fibers - which in turn become fashionable jackets, backpacks and other items.Plastic waste can also be reused in its original form. At the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development Rio +20 in 2012 - 20 years after the first World Oceans Day - giant fish made from plastic bottles were exhibited along the waterfront in Rio de Janeiro. Author: Martin Kuebler Improving the system"Besides the new funding we have been able to realize, we have also been able to make significant changes and improvements in the system," Slat said."It is in constant flux. We constantly test to 'poke holes' in the design, so there are constant detail changes happening to it."The biggest visible change is the switch from a system moored to the seabed to a free-floating system," he said. "We learned this has many advantages, including reduced cost, higher plastic capture efficiency, lower pressure on the barrier from wind, waves and current, as well as the ability to learn from the first system before launching a second one."We now believe we have designed a much more robust and effective system, based on the lessons of our study and tests," he underlined. "It will not be perfect yet, but it will be a good point to study the iterative process of testing and improving the system in the Pacific."According to Slat, at least 100 species are threatened with extinction as a result of plastic pollution, while the United Nations has estimated that countries around the world spend $13 billion on cleaning beaches. More is lost in damage caused to the fishing and tourism industries.Slat's project aims to be far more than a drop in the ocean when it comes to cleaning up our seas.Researchers Melanie Bergmann and Mine Banu Tekman conducted one of the few time-series studies tracking litter in the deep sea. And the results are worrying.Researchers used a towed camera system to observe the ocean floor at a depth of 2,500 meters. Even there, they found a significant concentration of litter.The European Union only recycles around 25 percent of its plastic trash - even though it is considered a pioneer in environmental issues. Our daily plastic waste often ends up at the bottom of the sea.Fisheries also play a major role when it comes to marine pollution. Plastic nets are commonly found among ocean litter - and they pose serious risks to marine animals. Once in the ocean, small pieces of plastic are eaten by plankton. Via these small organisms, microplastics make their way into the whole food chain. That means we end up eating the plastic we threw away.Plastic bags take about 20 years to disintegrate. Plastic bottles need up to 450 years. In the deep sea, the process can be even slower due to a lack of sunlight and oxygen.Things are getting worse. The researchers say there has been a clear increase in the amount of litter since 2011. It would still be possible to change our lifestyles. Reducing the amount of waste we produce and raising awareness on the importance of recycling could be the next step to start cleaning up our seas. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz