A party political broadcast for the Conservative Party currently being shown on British television barely mentions the party. It features leader Theresa May giving a speech, as inspirational music plays in the background. At the end of the broadcast, large text asks "Theresa May - or Jeremy Corbyn?" The Conservative Party's emblem is displayed in a much smaller font. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cAHEThis mirrors a wider strategy by the Conservative Party, as Britain heads toward a snap general election on June 8. Numerous campaign events have been brandished with large banners proclaiming "Theresa May's Team," with the Conservative logo barely visible. Local candidates in marginal seats refer to themselves as "Theresa May's local candidate."Read more: UK Conservatives slip in opinion polls ahead of electionThe motivation for this strategy is clear from the polls, which suggest that the Conservatives have the support of around 40 percent of voters, but that 61 percent believe May is the best choice for prime minister, compared with just 23 percent who support Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn for the job. This makes May's popularity rating higher than Margaret Thatcher's or Tony Blair's at their peak (48 percent and 52 percent respectively). "While the sensible remnants of the Labour Party seek to obscure toxic Corbyn during the campaign, the Conservatives are going to astonishing lengths to obscure their own party behind their leader," says Sophie Gaston, head of international projects at the left-leaning think tank Demos. "The strategy has a clever rationale - the polls show that May leads Corbyn among every demographic, while the Tory party itself will remain perennially toxic for some portions of the electorate."Many pundits say Corbyn is fighting a losing battleStrong and stableNotwithstanding her popularity among voters, in recent weeks May has been mocked in the media for her repetition of the phrase "strong and stable leadership."This points to one of May's weaknesses; she is often characterized as robotic and awkward, and has refused to take part in televised debates with other party leaders ahead of the election.Read more: Rivals slam May's plan to dodge televised debates"She is held to be possibly humorless, rather severe, perhaps unflinching, but that is currently being presented as strength and stability," says Matthew Cole, lecturer in history at Birmingham University. "At the moment these weaknesses are not seen as terribly important - and not as significant as being unable to lead one's party, being unrealistic in policy and being inexperienced, which are Corbyn's perceived weaknesses," he told DW.Read more: UK's Labour shedding traditional votersOutside political and media spheres, May's reliance on sound bites does not appear to be damaging. "The message is tiring for us in Westminster, but as the Leave campaign showed during the referendum last year, and Trump demonstrated to great effect, a simple message can hold powerful salience when voters reach the ballot box," Gaston told DW.May's traditionalist image may also be standing her in good stead. "She embodies values and attitudes which a big chunk of the country hold - she's traditional, socially conservative, has a skepticism toward the EU, immigration, and has a provincial outlook, especially compared to [former Prime Minister David] Cameron and [former Finance Minister George] Osborne. That plays well with large swathes of the country," says Oliver Patel, research associate at University College London's European Institute.Brexit means BrexitThe Conservatives' manifesto pledges slashing immigration and drastic changes to social care. But until this point, the campaign has been noticeably slim on policy detail. "May has claimed she owns the mandate of the referendum, and that's what makes her different from any previous prime minister going into an election," says Cole.Read more: Reports: British Prime Minister Theresa May plans migration curbsEven those who voted for the UK to remain in the EU now want the prime minister to get on with itAlthough the referendum on leaving the EU was very close, opinion polls indicate that now, a substantial proportion of those who voted Remain want to see the result honored. This means that the Liberal Democrat's strategy of standing on an anti-Brexit platform is likely to be unsuccessful. "Most people just want to see her get on with it," says Patel. "The Conservative strategy is not to focus on the two parties but the two leaders - not even on policy, but who do you want in number 10, who do you want negotiating Brexit."Of course, encouraging voters to make their decision based primarily on the personality of a leader carries risks . particularly if that person becomes toxic, as was seen in the case of both Thatcher and Blair. But given the weakness of the opposition and the size of the Conservative's poll lead, this strategy seems likely to be effective in this election at least."It is almost impossible to imagine a scenario where the Tories do not win this election - the question is simply how large the Prime Minister's mandate will be and whether the damage to Labour will be irreversible," says Gaston.On April 18, British Prime Minister Theresa May called for an early general election, bumping it up from 2020. British voters are set to cast their ballots for the House of Commons' 650 seats on June 8. Brexit will likely dominate the campaign agenda, with many perceiving the election as a vote on May's Brexit leadership.Though May had previously denied she would call for an early ballot, she argued snap elections were now necessary to counter the opposition's "political game-playing" on the UK's departure from the European Union (EU). For May, who took office after David Cameron resigned in the wake of the Brexit referendum, the vote marks her first attempt to secure a popular mandate. With the opposition at its weakest position in years, the early election will likely prove a major boon to the Tories, allowing them to comfortably expand their current 17-seat majority in the House of Commons. Overall, the Conservatives have backed May's leadership as she steers the UK towards a hard Brexit, which includes removing the country from the European single market. Embattled Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn announced his support of May's call for snap elections. He will attempt to position his party as an "effective alternative" to the Tories. Corbyn, a traditional labourist, will campaign on reversing government austerity, nationalizing railways, and investing in wages, all while steering clear of Brexit so as to not alienate the party's pro-leavers.Analysts predict few election gains for Labour, however, as Corbyn's Old Labour policies and refusal to bend to backbench opposition have split the party. Some Labour MPs challenged his support of snap election, and Labour MP Tom Blenkinsop said he would not stand for re-election due to "irreconcilable differences" with Corbyn. Tim Farron, current leader of the Liberal Democrats said that, "only the Liberal Democrats can prevent a Conservative majority." After the party's coalition with the Conservatives under Cameron, the Lib Dems were smashed in 2015 national elections, receiving only nine seats. For Farron, the snap election will be a chance for him to significantly build up his party's representation in parliament. The pro-EU and economically liberal party also used May's announcement to call for a second Brexit referendum. In terms of the June elections, the Lib Dems could benefit from disaffected pro-EU Labour voters and those who seek a "soft Brexit" that would keep the UK in the European single market. According to the party, 1,000 people registered as Lib Dems just after May's announcement.Like the Lib Dems' Farron, first minister of the Scottish government and Scottish National Party leader Nicola Sturgeon clearly positioned herself against May, describing the Prime Minister's move as a "huge political miscalculation." May and Sturgeon have been a loggerheads over whether or not a second Scottish referendum can go forward before Brexit comes into effect. The SNP already holds 54 of Scotland's allotted 59 MP seats, leaving little room for gain. However, the party is also unlikely to lose seats as their support has stayed steady. A majority of Scots voted to remain in the EU, meaning that Sturgeon could frame the election as both a call to Downing Street to consider a "soft Brexit" option and to consult the devolved nations in exit negotiations.Despite being a major player in the campaign to take the UK out of the EU, the UK Independence Party (UKIP) currently has just one seat in parliament. However, the Euroskeptic party still has a support base, and leader Paul Nuttall will seek to paint May as a political opportunist. Yet this will not likely translate into seats as many former UKIP voters have joined May's "hard Brexit" bandwagon.Other parties currently holding Commons' seats include the Greens (one), Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party (eight) and Sinn Fein (four), as well as Wales' Plaid Cymru (three). The June 8 election date places the UK's national election between that of France (April/May) and Germany (September), meaning parliamentary chambers on both sides of the channel may be in for a shake up. Author: Cristina Burack