The clearance of Homs follows the evacuation of the last rebel-held neighborhood, al-Waer, which had been besieged for four years, the Syrian government said Sunday."It is a great achievement today," Homs governor Talal Barrazi told Syrian TV channel al-Ikhbariya. He said state institutions will begin returning to al-Waer immediately.A correspondent with French news agency Agence France-Presse said the evacuees left on board 50 buses as more than 30 trucks packed with household belongings trailed behind."The last bus [with evacuees on board] has left the al-Waer neighborhood," Barazi told the French news agency Agence France-Presse. "There are no more weapons or armed men in al-Waer [...] we can declare Homs to be a secure city."Syrian TV broadcast from inside al-Waer showed children and men gathering around government-sponsored trucks distributing bread and goods.Rebel fighters left with women and children on board 50 busesGovernment on the offensiveThe UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said more than 20,000 people had been evacuated from al-Waer to the rebel-held areas in the country's north over the past several weeks. Rebels still control areas north of Homs, while the government is on the offensive against so-called "Islamic State" militants to the south.Syria's opposition and armed rebels are now concentrated in the rebel-held northern province of Idlib, and in rural Aleppo along the border with Turkey. IS militants still hold territory in eastern and northeastern Syria and south of Homs.Russian soldiers to be deployedHoms had been at least partially controlled by the rebels since the early days of the revolt that broke out in 2011.The Russian-supervised operation to clear the area began two months ago and has been carried out over several weeks. At least 600 Russian soldiers will reportedly now be deployed in al-Waer to provide security for residents who still live there or for those who were displaced by fighting and wish to return home.Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.In April the US launched a missile strike against a Syrian air-base in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on civilians. The attacked marked a sharp turn-around in US Syrian policy, with President Donald Trump long advocating against direct action against the Syrian regime.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has aided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher jbh/cmk (AP, AFP)