US President Donald Trump said Saturday that "we can make a fast decision"&nbsp;on a new FBI director, adding it could be done by the end of next week."I think the process is going to go quickly,"&nbsp;said Trump, before delivering the commencement address at Liberty University in Virginia. "[The candidates]&nbsp;have been vetted over their lifetime essentially, but very well-known, highly respected, really talented people. And that's what we want for the FBI."Trump abruptly fired former director James Comey on Tuesday after he allegedly requested more funding from the US Department of Justice to investigate purported Russian interference in the 2016 US presidential election. Trump did not mention Comey during his speech at Liberty University.Candidates in the runningThere are six known candidates who interviewed for the position on Saturday at Justice Department headquarters.The first person to be interviewed for the position was Alice Fisher, who served as assistant attorney general for the criminal division during the George W. Bush administration. If she is selected, Fisher would become the first female FBI director.Former FBI Director James Comey was fired on TuesdayAdam Lee, a special agent in charge of the FBI's office in Richmond, Virginia, was interviewed as well. Acting FBI Director&nbsp;Andrew McCabe was also interviewed, despite his repeated willingness&nbsp;to break from the White House explanations of Comey's ouster.Texas Republican Senator John Cornyn, who is the current Senate majority whip and a former Texas attorney general, is also in the running.Anonymous sources told the Associated Press that Michael J. Garcia, an associate judge on New York's highest court, and US District Judge Henry E. Hudson were also interviewed. Garcia previously held major positions in the Commerce Department, Justice Department and Department of Homeland Security. Hudson, who was appointed by George W. Bush, struck down a major component of the Affordable Care Act in 2010.Attorney General Jeff Sessions and his deputy, Rod Rosenstein conducted the interviews. The six known candidates are among dozens of people that Trump is considering. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cqBEkbd/cmk (AP, Reuters)