After a meeting with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas, US President Donald Trump told reporters on Wednesday that he'd "love to be a mediator, an arbitrator or a facilitator" between Israel and the Palestinians in a bid to achieve a Middle East peace agreement.The US president said he believes, "We will get it done." But he also conceded that a deal "cannot be imposed by the United States or any other nation." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2VxqD"It's ... something that I think is frankly maybe not as difficult as people have thought over the years," he said at the beginning of a lunch with Abbas and senior US and Palestinian leaders.No new strategyIn doing so, Trump committed his administration to helping to resolve the decades-old conflict, something his three direct predecessors have failed to achieve. But at the same time, he didn't offer any new strategy about how peace could be achieved.Questions have been raised about Trump s choice of his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who entered the White House with no government experience, to oversee Middle East peace efforts, along with Trump s longtime business lawyer, Jason Greenblatt, as on-the-ground envoy.Abbas spoke through an interpreter and was equally positive, saying: "We are coming into a new opportunity a new horizon that would enable us to bring about peace."Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner is to over Middle East peace efforts on behalf of the US administrationPalestinian Islamist group Hamas has altered its three-decade-old charter, softening its tone somewhat while rejecting negotiations with Israel. Israel has accused Hamas of attempting to fool the world. (02.05.2017) The two-state scenario of Palestinians living alongside Israel remains the "only sensible alternative," Chancellor Angela Merkel has told Mahmoud Abbas in Berlin. The Palestinian president is also due to visit Brussels. (24.03.2017) Israeli and Palestinian NGOs have filed a suit against a new law allowing thousands of settlements on the West Bank. The legislation is so contentious that even hardliner Netanyahu reportedly has misgivings about it. (08.02.2017) Israel's education minister, Naftali Bennett, has vowed that a two-state solution will be "taken off the agenda" in January when Trump takes office. He repeated a call that Israel annex most of the West Bank. (29.12.2016) But he added that peace with Israel must be "based on the vision of two states" based on the 1967 borders with the Palestinian capital in East Jerusalem, and renewed his call for Israel to end its occupation of Palestinian land.Abbas said he hoped the US could be "true partners" to bring about a historic settlement.Confusing signalsBut Trump's commitment was met with skepticism in diplomatic quarters, coming just two months after he broke with the longstanding US policy of advocating a two-state solution, and vowed to move the US Embassy to Jerusalem, breaking with US policies that have lasted decades.That move would likely spark Palestinian fury and is privately seen by many in the Israel and US security establishments as needlessly inflammatory.On Tuesday, US Vice President Mike Pence said&nbsp;that "serious consideration" was still being given to the embassy move.Plans are being made for Trump to visit Netanyahu in Jerusalem later this month, and possibly meet Abbas in the West Bank, the Reuters news agency reported on Wednesday.&nbsp;It said US and Israeli officials have declined to confirm the trip. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cGJfmm/sms (AFP, AP, Reuters)