From electrifying the Elysee Palace and organizing Christmas parties in the late 19th century to shaping political campaigns today, the women linked to France's presidents have long influenced the country's political affairs.Eugenie de Montijo (center) would have been the first 'first lady' - but her husband, Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte, organized a 1851 coup and declared himself emperorWhile some first ladies preferred to stay out of the spotlight and simply be the supportive wife, many forged their own path.In the late 19th century, Cecile Carnot organized grand balls at the Elysee Palace and started a Christmas tradition that continues to this day, inviting hundreds of disadvantaged children to celebrate the holiday at the presidential home.In the early 1960s, fervent Catholic Yvonne de Gaulle kept watch over her husband's moral character.She&nbsp;reportedly tried to get the president to ban the miniskirt, and famously refused to welcome divorced or adulterous people to the Elysee Palace, including (divorced) French bombshell Brigitte Bardot.Her efforts were not in vain: Charles de Gaulle is said to have been the only modern-day president not to have had at least one mistress.Socialist warriorDanielle Mitterrand, who in her youth went underground with the French Resistance during World War II, was a lifelong supporter of socialist causes, from the Zapatistas in Mexico and the Marxist-Leninist government in Cuba to ethnic minorities such as the Kurds and Tibetans. She kept up her work as first lady in the 1980s and 1990s.In 2005, Mitterrand voted "no" in the 2005 French referendum on the European Constitution, telling German newsmagazine "Spiegel" that she denounced "the power of the economy over people.""Money is the guru; money decides everything," she told RTL radio shortly before her death in 2011. "That's why we are working to get out of this system."Affairs and scandalTrierweiler (left) and Hollande split up two years into his presidencyIn recent years, French first ladies have grabbed the spotlight for matters of the heart. Former President Francois Sarkozy and his second wife Cecilia divorced less than six months after he assumed office in 2007. A few months later, he married former top model and singer Carla Bruni.Outgoing President Francois Hollande celebrated his 2012 win with his partner, journalist Valerie Trierweiler. But a couple years later, his affair with actress Julie Gayet was exposed by celebrity magazine "Closer."A tell-all memoir by Trierweiler, which revealed intimate details and depicted the Socialist leader as someone who doesn't like the poor, didn't help his image.And now, Brigitte Macron is set to enter the Elysee Palace. The 64-year-old has helped shape the president-elect's political career, and Emmanuel Macron has said he wants to formalize the role of first lady.It remains to be seen how the former drama teacher and grandmother of seven will shape the role for herself.For a look at legendary first ladies around the world, click through the gallery below.Brigitte Macron, wife of France's President-elect Emmanuel Macron, has been an integral part of her husband's winning campaign. At 64, she is his closest adviser, managing his agenda, editing his speeches and advising him on his stage presence. She plans to redefine the role of first lady, aiming to help disadvantaged youth. The president-elect has often said, "Her view matters to me."Born Brigitte Marie-Claude Trogneux, Macron is 24 years older than her husband. They met when he was 15 and still at school in Amiens, in northern France. She was a teacher, he was a member of her drama club. He moved to Paris to finish school but continued to pursue her, and they eventually married in 2007. She has three adult children from a previous marriage, and is a grandmother to seven.The wife of US Republican President Donald Trump saw her own share of controversy during Trump's presidential campaign, including allegations that she plagiarized a speech by Michelle Obama. The native Slovenian and former model had to grow a thick skin in next to no time. Born Melanija Knavs, she is Trump's third wife and 24 years his junior - the same age gap as France's Macron and his wife.In 2009, Michelle Obama became the first black first lady in US history. The graduate of Princeton University and Harvard Law School is admired not only for her accomplished past, but also as a style icon. She accompanied her husband on numerous official visits - and always dazzled in creative outfits that matched her gracious manner. Here, she's in the White House Garden, which she initiated.Hillary Clinton's two attempts at entering the White House as president both failed. The dream of having the first female US president remains an elusive one, with Trump declaring victory after the November 8 election. During her time as first lady (1992-2000), Clinton was widely regarded as a "secret" vice president and key aide to her husband, former President Bill Clinton.Originally from Italy, Carla Bruni Sarkozy rose to fame as a model and singer. She began studies in art and architecture, but broke them off at the age of 19. She found success with music, especially with the album "Quelqu'un m'a dit" in 2002. In 2008, she married then-French President Nicolas Sarkozy. Today, Bruni Sarkozy is still a style icon.The mother of four has been queen of Jordan since 1999, at the side of her husband King Abdullah II. She is known for her social commitment in Jordan and abroad. Rania has participated in demonstrations against the so-called "Islamic State," and met with Syrian refugees in Greece. For her efforts she received the Walther Rathenau Prize from Chancellor Angela Merkel in 2015.She is queen of Swaziland - but one of many, because King Mswati III has 15 wives. But Queen LaMbikiza is the one that accompanies the king at most of his representative occasions - and steals the show with her striking gowns. At home, LaMbikiza is known for her fight against HIV and AIDS.The widow of assassinated US President John F. Kennedy is adored to this day. Jacqueline "Jackie" Bouvier Kennedy, born in 1929, came from New York's upper class and had French roots. Jackie and her husband, whom she married in 1953, were the most glamorous presidential couple ever to move into the White House. Her sense of style made her a legend beyond her time as a first lady. She died in 1994.The successful Hollywood actress, who starred opposite Gary Cooper and Clark Gable, became Princess Grace of Monaco in 1956. But there were rumors throughout her life that she wasn't happy with her marriage. Kelly is even supposed to have said that her wedding was the worst day of her life. In 1982, she died at the age of 52 in a car accident - and became a legend.Soraya Esfandiary-Bakhtiari was the wife of the last shah of Iran. In 1951, at the tender age of 19, she married Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, who ruled the country from 1967 until he was overthrown in the 1979 Iranian Revolution. Soraya spoke fluent German and French, and loved riding and skiing. Her marriage with the shah was annulled after seven years because the couple couldn't have children.This lady was known for her love of luxury and her eccentricities. The former beauty queen was the woman at the side of Ferdinand Marcos, the 10th president of the Philippines from 1966 to 1986. Imelda became world famous for her record-breaking shoe collection, which contained several thousand designer pairs. Author: Jan Bruck (rb), Sertan Sanderson