Bitter rivalries between the Hamas and Fatah parties were highlighted by the West Bank's municipal elections. German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier has made his inaugural trip to Israel and the Palestinian territories. It proved a tricky visit after Germany's foreign minister sparked a diplomatic row there last month. (09.05.2017) Israel will withhold $1 million in payments to the United Nations after a UNESCO resolution declared the country's claim to Jerusalem "null and void." The measure passed the cultural agency's executive board. (03.05.2017) Israel has approved the first new West Bank settlement in two decades. The decision comes despite international concern settlement building is an obstacle to peace. (31.03.2017) Members of the European Parliament on Thursday attacked Israel's settlement policy, particularly a law that retroactively legalized Jewish settlements on privately-owned Palestinian land.A "two-state solution on the basis of the 1967 borders, with Jerusalem as the capital of both states" was the only viable option for lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians, MEPs said in a resolution.The resolution called for Israel to immediately stop construction of new settlements as they were "illegal under international law, undermine the two-state solution, and constitute a major obstacle to peace efforts."The resolution condemned all acts of violence and terrorism and all acts of provocation and incitement, including on Israelis.MEPs signaled their intention to launch a new EU peace initiative to focusing on the two-state solution and to achieve concrete results within a set period.Five major parliamentary groups voted in favor of the resolution, that singled out the so-called regularisation law, which Israel's parliament approved in February.The Brussels-based American Jewish Committee Transatlantic Institute commended the EU's resolution, saying previous resolutions lacked balance.United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on 22 November 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders.This picture, taken on March 26 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the peace treaty in Washington. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. This war eventually led to the peace talks which lasted 12 days and resulted in two agreements.The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions, which involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians, who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time, achieved little, although it did create the framework for later talks.Negotiations, which took place in Norway, between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) resulted in the first deal between the two sides, the Oslo Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period.US President, Bill Clinton, invited Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, and PLO Chairman, Yasser Arafat, to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees, and Jerusalem. Despite more detailed negotiations than ever before, no agreement was reached. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising.The Camp David negotiations were followed by meetings in Washington, then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt. They too were without results. Later, the Arab Peace Initiative was proposed in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to the lines of June 1967, so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries agreed to recognize Israel.The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. In June 2003, Prime Minister Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart Mahmoud Abbas, accepted the road map, with the Security Council also approving it in November. The timetable called for the final agreement to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented.In 2007, US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to re-launch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Olmert, and Palestinian Authority s President, Mahmoud Abbas, took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008.In 2010, special US Envoy George Mitchell s efforts led to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreeing to and implementing a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to re-launch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock.A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence, and eventually led to the launch of the Israeli military operation, Protective Edge, which ended with a ceasefire on 26 August 2014.Envoys from over 70 countries have gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu has slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives are attending the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said at the opening of the event. Author: Aasim Saleem "While we would have wished for even clearer language, we appreciate the important step Parliament has taken to end the counterproductive habit of sheltering the Palestinians from legitimate criticism," said Director Daniel Schwammenthal."By unflinchingly addressing also the Palestinians' own shortcomings that prevent the creation of an independent Palestinian state such as incitement, terror, corruption, lack of rule of law, internal division the EU can play a truly constructive role in the peace process."His comments referred to language in the resolution he interpreted as an "indirect condemnation of the Palestinian Authority for paying significant salaries to Palestinian terrorists in Israeli prisons."About 600,000 Israeli settlers live in more than 200 settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. In December, the Israeli government lashed out over a UN Security Council resolution that condemned Israeli settlement building in the Palestinian Territories and called on Israel to stop immediately.aw/rt (AFP, dpa) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2XBjN