US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson (right in photo) met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov&nbsp;(left) on Wednesday before the Kremlin's emissary moved on to the White House for talks&nbsp;with US President Donald Trump.Tillerson called his meeting with Lavrov a chance for the two diplomats to "continue our dialogue" and the "exchange of views" that they started last month in Moscow. During that trip, Tillerson said he sought to rebuild the relationship between the nations. Possible topics for Wednesday's talks included the civil wars in Syria and Ukraine, both of which Russia has played a role in.The diplomats met a day after the administration fired FBI Director James Comey, who had been investigating Russia's relationship with Trump's 2016 presidential campaign and many of the president's official circle. The White House has already begun its search for a new FBI director."Was he fired?" Lavrov joked about Comey before talks with Tillerson. "You're kidding. You're kidding." The US secretary of state&nbsp;did not mention the matter.On Wednesday, Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman said the Kremlin had no interest in&nbsp;Comey's firing.&nbsp;Dmitry Peskov said Kremlin officials hoped Trump's decision to dismiss the FBI director would not affect Russia's relationship with the United States "in any way." Peskov called it "an entirely domestic matter" for the US.In a press conference after meeting Trump, Lavrov dismissed what he considers a widespread notion in the United States that "people are controlling things from outside."Trump called the talks "very, very good."Read: Shock, criticism, comedy greet Trump's firing of Comey'A new beginning'Comey, now 56, was appointed to a 10-year-term as FBI director by US President Barack Obama in 2013. Announcing its decision to suddenly fire the three-decade law enforcement veteran&nbsp;on Tuesday, the Trump administration wrote: "The FBI is one of our nation's most cherished and respected&nbsp;institutions, and today will mark a new beginning for our crown jewel&nbsp;of law enforcement."It was only the second time in the nation's history that a president has fired the head of the FBI. The first time occurred in 1993, when Bill Clinton dismissed William Sessions over alleged ethical lapses.&nbsp;Lawmakers disagree on how to move forward. Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer of New York has called for an independent inquiry into Comey's dismissal during an active investigation into possible impropriety by members of Trump's campaign and administration. Mitch McConnell, the Senate's top Republican, has said he doesn't think that would be necessary.FBI Director James Comey announces in May that the bureau will open an investigation into Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server for both her personal and government correspondence while secretary of state between 2009 and 2013. Two months later, Comey says that the FBI will not pursue criminal charges against Clinton, enraging Republican legislators.US authorities seize former New York congressman Anthony Weiner's laptop and mobile devices as part of a probe into allegations he sent sexually explicit text messages to a 15-year-old. They go on to discover emails from Clinton and Huma Abedin, Weiner's wife and a close Clinton aid, on the devices.The Obama administration publically accuses Moscow of meddling in the 2016 presidential election after WikiLeaks publishes a trove of confidential emails from the Democratic National Convention. In a statement, the Department of Homeland Security says it believes that "based on the scope and sensitivity of these efforts, only Russia s senior-most officials could have authorized these activities."Just days before the presidential election, Comey announces the FBI is reopening its investigation into Clinton's email on the back of evidence found on Weiner's laptop. "It took a lot of guts... But I ll tell you what he did, he brought back his reputation," Republican nominee Donald Trump says. On November 6, the FBI concludes it found nothing in the emails to alter its original decision.Trump is elected President, defeating Clinton by winning 304 electoral college votes to her 227.Comey confirms that the FBI is investigating alleged ties between Trump's election campaign team and the Russian government. The FBI director also dismisses the president's tweets alleging that Obama ordered Trump Tower to be wiretapped during the election. In her most extensive remarks since the divisive presidential election, Clinton says that Comey's email probe announcement in October contributed to her election defeat. Trump, meanwhile, takes a different view, tweeting that Comey "gave her a free pass for many bad deeds!"The very next day, Comey testifies before the Senate Judiciary Committee, defending his decision to reopen the investigation into Clinton's email just days before the election. He says it makes him "nauseous" to think he could have affected the election, but adds that Abedin had forwarded "hundreds and thousands of emails (to Weiner), some of which contain classified information."The Washington Post newspaper and ProPublica investigative journalism network reveal that the FBI was forced to clarify in a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee that Comey had exaggerated about the number of emails Abedin forwarded.Trump, heeding advice from Department of Justice, fires Comey, informing him that he is "not able to effectively lead the bureau." In a memo, the White House says it "cannot defend the Director's handling of the conclusion of the investigation of Secretary Clinton's emails," and does "not understand his refusal to accept the nearly universal judgment that he was mistaken." Author: David Martin mkg/kms (Reuters, AFP, dpa, AP)