One of Germany's most prominent nationalists said on Saturday that she would like to see not only the burqa but all headscarves banned in German public spaces.Alice Weidel, who along with Alexander Gauland is representing the populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party ahead of federal elections in September, called the religious garb sexist and inappropriate in German society."Headscarves do not belong in public spaces and should be banned on the streets," she told Berlin daily Tagesspiegel. Adding that it was an "absolutely sexist symbol," she compared the separation it makes between men and women to the apartheid system of racial segregation in South Africa.In excerpts published ahead of Sunday's edition of Tagesspiegel, the former Goldman Sachs employee said that "the headscarf doesn't belong in Germany," echoing her party's official platform that "Islam doesn't belong in Germany."She then suggested that on top of a headscarf ban, there should be a fine for anyone wearing a full-face veil or burqa.While attacking the hijab, which is widely worn in Germany's Muslim communities, represented a new extreme - full-face veils in public have already been forbidden in Bavaria, Germany's conservative southeastern state, and for government employees carrying out official business.Weidel did not apparently extend her suggestion to several other religions, including Orthodox Judaism, which require believers to don different kinds of head coverings.European countries move to ban niqab, burqaDifferent forms of Muslim religious garb have long been a point of contention throughout Europe as the continent comes to grips with new waves of immigration. In 2011, France became the first country to ban the full-face covering, or niqab, from being worn in public, citing security concerns. The Netherlands adopted a similar measure in 2015, and Austria followed suit this year.On Friday, the deputy chairwoman of Britain's populist right-wing UK Independence Party (UKIP) turned heads when she suggested the UK ban full-face veils on the grounds that they "prevent intake of essential vitamin D from sunlight."German border police should shoot at refugees entering the country illegally, the co-chair of the AfD has said. Officers must "use firearms if necessary" to "prevent illegal border crossings," the 41-year-old told a regional newspaper in 2016. Communist East German leader Erich Honecker was the last German politician who condoned shooting at the border.The head of the AfD in the state of Thuringia made headlines for referring to Berlin's Holocaust memorial as a "monument of shame" and calling on the country to stop atoning for its Nazi past. The comments came just as Germany enters an important election year - leading AfD members moved to expel H cke for his remarks. Deputy Chairman Alexander Gauland said the German national soccer team's defender Jerome Boateng might be appreciated for his performance on the pitch - but people would not want "someone like Boateng as a neighbor." He also argued Germany should close its borders and "suffer the cruel pictures. We can't be blackmailed by children's eyes."Initially, the AfD campaigned against the euro and bailouts - but that quickly turned into anti-immigrant rhetoric. "People who won't accept STOP at our borders are attackers," the European lawmaker said. "And we have to defend ourselves against attackers." Alternative for Germany's North Rhine-Westphalia state chairman Marcus Pretzell, who is also Frauke Petry's new husband, wrote "These are Merkel's dead," shortly after news broke of the deadly attack on the Berlin Christmas market in December 2016. The member of parliament in Germany's eastern state of Saxony recently made waves with an inquiry into how far the state covers the cost of sterilizing unaccompanied refugee minors. As of last July, 52,000 unaccompanied minors sought asylum in Germany, according to the Federal Association for Unaccompanied Minor Refugees (BumF) - the vast majority of them young men. Poggenburg, head of the AfD in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt, has also raised eyebrows with extreme remarks. In February 2017, he urged other lawmakers in the state parliament to join measures against the extreme left-wing in order to "get rid of, once and for all, this rank growth on the German racial corpus" - the latter term clearly derived from Nazi terminology. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach