An unusual hush fell around the city of Manchester on Tuesday morning. The normal bustle of the rush hour commuter gridlock had become a quiet procession of foot traffic. Police have cordoned off much of the downtown area near Manchester Arena, where 22 people were killed and more than 50 wounded in a suspected terrorist attack during a concert of pop singer Ariana Grande."It's a calm atmosphere. It's really strange, it's normally bustling at this time, it's quite a different Manchester," Steve White, a financial advisor, told DW on his way to work.- British politicians suspend election campaign after Manchester attack- Manchester and the world show solidarity with concert attack victimsWhile many expressed their shock and sadness, particularly as Grande's popularity amongst teenagers meant that there could be a high number of young people amongst the dead, inhabitants made it clear that they would not be spurred to hate by the attack. Indeed, it was much more important to them that they stick together. "It brings out the people's good spirit," White said, referring to the sense of solidarity that could be felt throughout the city in the wake of the attack. Indeed, almost immediately after the explosion, #RoomForManchester began trending on social media as locals began offering their homes to those affected by the violence.No group has yet claimed responsibility for the attack, and while some on social media have thrown around speculations that it may have been Islamist in nature, police were careful to downplay the suggestions until more was known about the bombing. But the people of Manchester wanted it known that they took pride in their multicultural identity. In a city that is about 16 percent Muslim, they were suffering together as Mancunians.People on the street were determined not to let terrorism deter them from their routine. If they couldn't drive to work, they would walk and carry on with their lives.Bitter memories of IRA violenceFor many residents of the city old enough to remember The Troubles, it brought back unpleasant memories of conflict with the terrorist Irish Republican Army (IRA) - but also drove home that, over decades, the threat of terrorism is something Manchester has had to get used to."It made me think back to 1996 all the memories came back," said Steve White, referring to a truck bombing carried out by the IRA in June of that year on Corporation Street in the city center. Although no one was killed, 212 people were injured in the biggest bomb detonation in Great Britain since World War II.White described the brutal change in mood from the previous evening: "It's a horrible tragedy. I saw all the teenagers going to the concert last night, my office is just behind the building it was a great atmosphere. All the young people, people of all ages really."The blast occurred just after the concert came to close on Monday evening at one of the venue's exits. According to Manchester Arena management, it was "outside the building in a public space." Witnesses described chaos and screaming, as well as seeing bloodied concert-goers run from what appeared to be shrapnel composed of nuts and bolts. One woman who attended the concert with her 11 year old daughter told DW that there was pandemonium trying to flee the area. Another woman attended to two lost girls at her hotel throughout the night until she could reunite them with their parents. The authorities have said they are treating the attack as a suicide bombing carried out by a lone terrorist, but have not yet confirmed a motive.At around 10:30 p.m. local time, at the end of a concert by US pop singer Ariana Grande in Manchester Arena, an explosion shook what witnesses described as the foyer area of the venue where merchandise was being sold. The blast flung people to the ground and shattered glass in the foyer area.After the blast, people began streaming out of the arena. Grande has many younger fans, and there were many parents waiting to collect their children outside the venue. Police later said the blast killed 22 people, and over 50 people were injured. Some were treated on site while others were taken to local hospitals. First responders reported some of the victims had 'shrapnel wounds.'Ariana Grande, pictured in a file photo above, is a 23-year-old singer from the US. She is currently on her global 'Dangerous Woman Tour,' with her next scheduled concert for May 25 in London. Hours after the explosion in Manchester, Grande tweeted: "broken. from the bottom of my heart, i am so so sorry. i don't have words." In the aftermath of the explosion, several messages appeared on social media seeking help in finding people who were unaccounted for after the blast. Hotels near the venue opened their doors for children who had not yet been reunited with their parents, and #RoomInManchester began trending on Twitter as residents offered a place to stay for anyone stranded after the blast.Police are treating the explosion as a terrorist incident, carried out by a lone suicide bomber. Prime Minister Theresa May issued a statement early Tuesday morning, saying "We are working to establish the full details of what is being treated by the police as an appalling terrorist attack." Author: Matt Zuvela