Fossil fuels seem to be losing&nbsp;their unquestioned position as the world's primary source of energy, particularly after the Paris climate agreement. Even so, governments and private investors continue to support&nbsp;fossil fuel businesses worldwide.The Global Divestment Mobilization (May 5 to 13) will draw together&nbsp;thousands of people from across 39 countries on six continents to push forward divestment from fossil fuels, in favor of&nbsp;renewable energy. In other words, to convince investors to withdraw&nbsp;their financial support fossil fuel companies - and in doing so, protect the climate.Environmental activists and concerned individuals ask for an immediate freeze of any new investment in coal, oil or gas companies.The movement&nbsp;has spread across the world over the past five years. It's based on the argument that investing in fossil energies fuels the climate crisis.&nbsp;A global movementAs a project of the environmental nonprofit organization 350.org, the Global Divestment Mobilization started in United States universities in 2012. But the movement has now reached global dimensions."Everything is growing very rapidly," Melanie Mattauch, Europe communications coordinator told DW.The network includes&nbsp;now countries from Asia, Latin America and Africa. The development of the movement in Brazil, for instance, has been particularly exciting for Mattauch."There, many bishops and Catholic groups are engaged," she said. "They want the Vatican to react as a great moral authority - and a great investor."And the movement has also been very successful, Mattauch&nbsp;said, pointing to its growth. More than 700 public institutions worldwide have already committed&nbsp;to divest, including educational institutions, philanthropic foundations and governments. Just this week, the German city of G ttingen has become the fourth German city withdrawing investment in coal, oil and gas companies.The divestment movement has spread around the worldPush for divestmentFaith-based organizations represent around 20 percent of the total divestment reached yet."Christians in the Church have a particular moral and religious obligation to speak out on climate change," a spokesperson from the Christian Climate Action group told DW. She didn't want to be named, out of professional reasons."But we are very embarrassed by the fact that the church still has investments in fossil fuels."The Christian group is preparing a theater piece representing a marriage between the church and fossil fuels. They have sent&nbsp;invitations to commissioners in charge of the Church of England's investments.This is all about raising awareness and making pressure, the spokeswoman said.Beside&nbsp;drawing negative attention to institutions supporting fossil fuel companies, the movement&nbsp;particularly caught the attention of young people, Anthony Hobley, chief executive director of the Carbon Tracker Initiative, told DW."The movement has a large influence on universities," Hobley said. "Now students will think twice before taking a job in a fossil fuel company instead of in a clean tech company."Movement bolstered by external factorsDespite the fast growth of such pressure groups, external factors have also played a determining role in recent divestment decisions.Hobley explained that the Paris climate agreement and the subsequent international commitments to reduce greenhouse gas have been&nbsp;crucial for boosting divestment from fossil fuels.Hobley also highlighted the impact of pressure coming from high-profile people such as the governor of the Bank of England, Marc Carney.In his speeches, Carney warned about the long-term risks of continuing to invest in fossil fuel companies, and the burning of the worldwide reserves. &nbsp;"We have here a perfect combination of elements, and the divestment movement helps make&nbsp;all of them visible," Hobley pointed out.The dropping cost of renewables has also bolstered the movement.Fossil fuels flailingAccording to the international network Fossil Free, most oil and coal companies are struggling financially. Exxon, Shell, Chevron and BP were not able to cover costs with their profit in 2016, and coal is becoming a losing financial gamble in many regions worldwide.Some accuse fossil fuel companies of only surviving thanks to governmental subsidies. Oil Change International issued a 2015 report that G20 governments provided more than $400 billion (360 billion euros) per year to fossil fuel production, including some of the world's most carbon-intensive and polluting ones.Unless governments stop propping up&nbsp;fossil fuel companies, divestment will be limited, even with&nbsp;clean energy becoming ever cheaper."Sometimes such subsidies are even reverting the direction in which governments themselves are going - which is a low-carbon transition," Hobley commented.Action against financing coal companies at the Louvre, in ParisThe future of divestmentMattauch is confident that the movement will keep growing - as well as the divestment&nbsp;from the coal, oil and gas industries.The increasing effects of climate change will surely contribute to it, she believes.Hobley said investing in certain fossil fuel projects is neither beneficial financially nor for the climate.The movement plays a crucial role in helping investors understand the risks, and putting them in the international agenda, he concluded.Huge excavators extract brown coal - also called lignite - from the earth. This is the first step in getting energy from lignite, among the fossil fuels that emits the most carbon dioxide when burned. This fossil fuel still amounts to almost about a quarter of the German energy mix.The raw material is then transported to the nearby power stations. Kilometers of conveyors across the mine enable the transformation of raw lignite into coal ready for burning. From some spots, the mine seems to be a labyrinth of giant structures. Garzweiler is home to some of the largest machinery in the world. This conveyor, out of operation, gives a sense of the scale. When these machines need to be repaired, the maintenance service comes to them. Would you dare driving it to a shop?The energy company RWE also runs several wind parks, one of them visible from the mine itself. Although the company is preparing to adapt to renewable energies, for now its main goal is to extract the remaining lignite from the soil.Brown tones dominate the landscape at the Garzweiler mine. The machines above this varied palette are fixed to a rail that enables them to stably move back and forward. At the lowest level, conveyors cross from one end to the other.The view from any point in the open-cast Garzweiler mine is desolate. However, RWE says once the mine is depleted, it will be filled with water to one day become a recreation area. But for that, coal mining first has to be phased out completely.Meanwhile, activists have been living for more than two years in what remains of the Hambach Forest. They oppose RWE's plans to extend the Hambach mine - close to Garzweiler - which would see the remnants of the ancient forest go.Jus is one of the activists who has made the forest their home. They welcome interested visitors, providing them with information about their efforts. Support is constantly growing, Jus said. Living in the forest is not only a way to stop the mining activity, it is also the perfect way to demonstrate a more sustainable lifestyle, activists believe. They say they build with sustainable materials, in harmony with nature and respecting wildlife. Climate and energy experts believe the 2017 elections and the formation of a new government will be the turning points in reaching a final phase-out of coal mining. And if the Hambach mine invades the forest, activists fear the next generations will face a desolate panorama. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz