German researchers have uncovered a 25 percent incidence of tumors among a type of flatfish inhabiting one area of the Baltic Sea, close to the northern German city of Kiel.They believe the cancerous growths found on the species known as the common dab could be linked to the estimated 1.6 million of tons of armaments that were dumped at the bottom of the Baltic and North Seas at the end of World War II.The high prevalence compares to a 5 percent tumor rate in three other areas of the Baltic, researchers said.Worrying findings Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1G79fPresenting their evidence to a conference in Rostock on Monday, scientists from the Th nen Institute of Fishing Ecology said the rate of tumors among dab fish in shallow coastal waters was much higher than previously thought.Although dab has until recently been ignored by commercial fisheries, a shortage of traditional food species such as cod and haddock has seen their popularity for human consumption increase.Empasizing that their findings are preliminary, researchers warned that as the munitions continue to rust and leak discharge, the environmental impact of the mass dumping of Nazi-era weapons is likely to be much greater than earlier estimates.Thomas Lang, Deputy Director of the Th nen-Institute told DW in a statement that the higher incidence of tumors should at present "be seen as local" to the dab species. In a previous study of cod, his researchers didn't find any evidence of an increased prevalence of tumors in cod, he said.But another underwater munitions group warned more strongly about the risk to human health from bathing in and eating fish from the Baltic Sea.The common dab appears to be especially affected by toxins in its environment"I would not advise people to go swimming in the Baltic Sea," said Diana S. Pyrikova, Executive Director of the International Dialogue on Underwater Munitions (IDUM), whose organization has been studying global weapons dumping for more than a decade.Some chemicals leaching from old munitions on the ocean floor, such as TNT and chemical weapons, have been linked with cancer.The temperature of the North Sea is increasing with climate change. Good news for immigrant species - bad news for cold-loving residents. What else does global warming have in store for marine life of the North Sea? (21.02.2017) Is it dangerous to eat fish that eat microplastics? Researchers in Germany say not all fish eat them. But of those that do, it's unclear whether the plastics get into the fish's bloodstream - and then ours. (13.01.2016) Cod stocks have dropped significantly in the western Baltic as a result of overfishing. A new kind of fishing net has been created to help: it's designed so that it catches flatfish while allowing cod to go free. (08.05.2017) The European Union is the world's largest fish import market and to a high degree responsible for global overfishing. New regulations are aiming to change this, but it's not clear how they will be implemented. (05.04.2014) Pyrikova is also concerned that, by regularly consuming affected fish, humans could slowly experience a build-up of carcinogens that lead to cancer.Another research team from the University of Kiel found high levels of TNT among mussels that were growing around the rusted munitions in the Baltic, the German news agency dpa reported.Despite the concerns, the environment minister for the German state of Schleswig-Holstein insisted that the dumped armaments shouldn't be considered solely responsible for the tumors.Chemicals spreadingAt the conference in Rostock, scientists said they suspect that TNT explosives may be leading to the tumors in fish, after similar toxicity was observed in laboratory experiments.Some fish may be more susceptible to accumulating the chemicals in their bodies, depending on the depth of the sea they inhabit and how long they keep seawater in their bodies, they said.German munitions were dumped in the sea on the orders of Allied forces following their victory over Adolf Hitler in 1945. The US, Britain and France also dumped large amounts of weaponry off their coasts.Although the majority of the German weaponry dumped was conventional (explosives or fire ammunition), about 40,000 tons contained chemicals including mustard gas, phosgene - a chemical weapon that gained infamy during World War I - and arsenic.70 years after World War II munitions were dumped, concerns that their toxic payload are spreadingMost of the chemical munitions were sunk in deep areas of the Baltic, around the Bornholm and Gotland basins. But some were dumped in shallower waters.Watch where you swim - and what you eatHistorical accounts describe how boats would be loaded with armaments and then sunk into the sea, in the hope that they could be better pinpointed, if needed, in the future.While some scientists are confident that many of the sunken mines, bombs and shells remain sealed, others have warned that due to corrosion, the munitions are now spreading widely along the sea floor, allowing the chemicals to disperse."A lot of governments and militaries think it's more cost effective to leave them; that the salty water will help the chemicals dissolve - but that's not true," IDUM's Pyrikova told DW.The Hague-based nongovernmental organization warned that only 25 to 30 years remain to remove the munitions, before the weapons may have corroded so badly that they can no longer be located. Worse still, their chemicals would remain in the water and the sediment of the sea bed.The higher reported incidence of tumors in fish has led to concerns about the safety of some speciesProblem ignoredNew technologies could reduce the harmful effects of munitions, without the huge effort involved in removing them. But even this requires substantial investment from governments that until now appear to have turned a blind eye to the problem, Pyrikova said."Hi-tech mats can be deployed to the seabed which - over time - can dissolve the matter, capture the chemicals, and then slowly help the marine environment to recover," she told DW.Currently, no treaty exists to prohibit the global dumping of weapons underwater; there are reports that some military forces still carry out the practice.IDUM is working towards organizing a United Nations conference that would tackle the disposal of all types of munitions.But Pyrikova said most politicians and diplomats she speaks to are still surprised when told of the extent of the issue and its potential human and environmental impact.Alone in 2016 to date, around 35 separate incidents of mass fish die-offs have already been reported. As pictured above, more than 33 metric tons of dead fish washed up in 2015 at the Rodrigo de Freitas Lagoon, venue for the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. Due to pollution, these fish didn't get enough oxygen to survive.The western coast of North America, from San Francisco to British Columbia, saw an unprecedented, massive die off of seabirds in 2015. Up to 10,000 deaths were counted. Global warming was deemed guilty, after disease and trauma were ruled out. In Alaska in February 2016, around 8,000 seabirds were again found dead. They had starved. Their main food was fish. Yes, the thousands of dead fish.The endangered green sea turtle - named so for its skin color - is among the largest sea turtles in the world. A life-threatening herpes virus - which impedes vision, feeding and movement - is affecting an increasing number of these creatures. Experts are still investigating why and how the virus spreads. Yet again, pollution and global warning seem to be the main culprits.Here's a break for the eyes, if not for the mind. During spring 2015, scientists estimated that more than half of all saiga antelopes - a critically endangered species - died over less than two weeks. Then, experts warned that the species was suffering due to climate change, and could go extinct within a year. So far, there have been no reports about further mass deaths. Let's cross our fingers!Thousands of giant squids' decomposing bodies lay rotting on a Chilean coast at the beginning of 2016. Locals worried about sanitation, for obvious reasons - but scientists were also concerned. Although this phenomenon is not new for the area - the picture above is from 2004 -, the huge scale really is. The super El Ni o seems to be the most likely candidate in this astonishing die-off.In 2015, thousands of bats fell from the sky in Bhopal, India. A year before, around 100,000 of the creatures were found dead in the state of Queensland, Australia. The streets, trees and yards were covered with dead or dying bats. These flying mammals are very vulnerable to the heat, and could not stand rising temperatures.Whales naturally beach themselves and die - but pollution and climate change are likely causing an increase in this phenomenon. Germany, United States, New Zealand, Chile - it's happening all over the world. At least 400 beached whales were registered in Chilean territory alone in 2015. Above are a few of the 29 dead sperm whales found on the northern coasts of Europe since the start of 2016. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz