In the 11 years I have lived in Manchester, the city has grown steadily more prosperous, international and safe. Parts of the city which were no-go areas before, are turning into bustling multi-cultural communities.Concerted efforts from the city's police to work with local community leaders have thwarted serious gang and gun crime, while the city's large student population keeps Manchester feeling fresh, vibrant and new.The city has seen some of the best economic growth in all of the UK, and this has continued in the face of the uncertainties linked to the prospect of Brexit too. I have witnessed the city grow into a European business and cultural hub.Read more: Manchester resilient in the face of terrorismManchester spiritAn ingrained sense of togetherness shared by nearly all those living here has helped all this happen. As thousands of people gathered on Monday evening for a vigil to mourn those killed and injured in the terror attack, you could both sense and hear that Manchester spirit.Manchester prides itself on a sense of togetherness and inclusion"Mancunians and Manchester has always been a city based on people standing together, and not being divided," Mark Beatty told me as he prepared to listen to the words of the Manchester mayor and others addressing the crowds."And we will not allow terrorism to divide us. That's why we brought our three children with us today."Changing things for the better Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2dULKMark Beatty had brought his three young daughters of primary school age - like so many of those attending the Ariana Grande concert the evening before had been. I sensed he wanted to show them what this city was made of.Abid Hussein had also made his way to the vigil along with a group of friends, and expressed the same hopes as so many of those gathered around him."I'm hoping that this will change things for the better, I'm hoping that this will bring the citizens of Manchester together whether they be black, white, yellow, whether they be Jew, Christian Muslim, Hindu or Sikh."On edgeBut even though the center of Manchester felt like it was bouncing back to a sense of normality that evening, with people spilling out onto the pavements of pubs and bars in the warm May sunshine, there was clearly an edge to it all.Armed police gave a sense of increased safety, but were also a reminder of what had happened, and what might still happen.The terror alert level has been raised to critical and Mancunians might have to get used to the sight of soldiers on the streetsA few hours earlier I got caught up in the frantic evacuation of the Arndale Center - a huge, sprawling shopping mall in the city center.People panicked when police moved in to arrest a man on matters unrelated to the terror attack, and started running for the exits. I ran with them, suddenly feeling utterly helpless, scared and angry that this is what people in this and so many other European cities have now come to expect.Read more: Britain's PM Theresa May condemns 'worst of humanity'Standing togetherWith the immediate aftermath of the 2011 Oslo and Ut ya terror attacks in mind, I had spent the morning carefully avoiding drawing any conclusions of Islamist terror being behind the attack on people inside the Manchester Arena.Then the "Islamic State" (IS) group claimed responsibility. Soon after the identity of the bomber became known - a Manchester-born British citizen and son of Libyans who fled Moammar Gadhafi in the 1980s.What now for Manchester's sizeable Muslim population? Would there be a backlash, as has been seen elsewhere in Western cities in the aftermath of IS-claimed terror?"I stand before you on behalf of the entire Old Trafford Muslim society," Imam Yusuf Chunara from the Old Trafford Jame'ah E Noor mosque told me outside Manchester Town Hall. He, and many others from a range of different faiths, had come to stand together against the terror which had struck their city."It's terrifying, it's horrible, that someone would want to do something like this to innocent people just enjoying themselves. These acts are highly against Islam and we highly condemn it," he said.Few point finger at IslamImam Yusuf Chunara: "These acts are highly against Islam""Everyone's got this fear inside. We teach and promote peace, it's a matter of humanity. And we're also here to show our support to the police and all those people who have helped those who have been affected," said Chunara.Manchester's Muslim population is diverse, and to generalize about a group of people based on their religion feels senseless - no less so as a reaction to a heinous act carried out by someone purporting to belong to that same religion.Yet there will always be those pointing a finger at Islam in the aftermath of terrorism performed by people who say they do it in the name of that religion.Read more: Madrid to Manchester: A chronology of terror in EuropeResponsibility rests with the criminalTwo days after the attack it looks as if Manchester is dusting itself off, getting ready to move on. Questions still remain around how a young individual could be radicalized to the extent of deciding to attack children and young people in the very city he himself grew up in. As people kept bringing flowers to the square in front of Town Hall on Wednesday, the consensus seemed to be that the responsibility for his actions were his and those of any fellow perpetrators, and cannot be laid on the shoulders of any one community. Meanwhile, for me and for my fellow Mancunians, the saddest thing today is the realization that for the children growing up here today, such a senseless attack is something they can expect to happen again.The city with 2.6 million inhabitants is, next to Birmingham, the economic and cultural center of England's North West. Birmingham and Manchester have had a long rivalry over which of the two is Britain's second-biggest city. One thing Manchester definitely has is the biggest university campus in Great Britain. With some 100,000 students it has one the world's biggest student populations.The Alan Turing memorial commemorates the computer pioneer who taught at the university here from 1948. He rose to fame during World War II for helping to break the German Enigma code, which in turn greatly influenced the course of the war. In Manchester, he developed software for the first computer and conducted research into artificial intelligence.Manchester played a pivotal role in the Industrial Revolution. During the 19th century, it developed into the center of the British textile industry and became synonymous with unbridled capitalism. The Museum of Science and Industry, located in Liverpool Road Station, the world's oldest (1830) passenger train station, is devoted to the development of science, technology and industry. In the Castlefield district the remains of a Roman fort, Mamucium or Mancunium, which gave its name to Manchester, was found and reconstructed. In the 18th century, Castlefield was in the middle of a network of canals. On the Irweil river towpath, a 1.5 km walk leading to the Salford Quays was created. An eye-catcher is Beetham Tower, at 171 meters (554 ft.) the highest skyscraper outside London.Salford Quays is a former industrial area of Greater Manchester. It came to a standstill during the 1980s as industry declined. Setting an example for other European industrial areas, it became one of the first and largest urban regeneration projects in the United Kingdom following the closure of the dockyards in 1982. Modern housing, theater and event locations were created. The Lowry is a theater and music complex on Salford Quays. It consists of two theaters, a broad promenade, small cafes and concert stages. It is named after 20th century artist L.S. Lowry (1887-1987), known for his paintings of industrial scenes in North West England. The complex is also home to the Lowry Collection, a permanent exhibition of some 400 works from all periods of his career. Manchester is a multi-cultural city. Nowhere else in Europe will you find a greater number of people from ethnic minorities living side by side. Only New York is thought to have more. Manchester University established that 153 languages are spoken in the city. Many occasions are celebrated in Manchester - be it the Hindu Holi-Festival (pictured), the Chinese New Year or the Caribbean Carnival. City-dwellers need recreational areas. Manchester has an astonishing number of parks and gardens, 135 in total. The most important of these is Heaton Park in the north of the city. With its 250 hectares it is one of Europe's biggest public parks. Hyde Park in London is only 142 hectares big and the English Garden in Munich counts 417 hectares.Manchester has produced many famous bands, either home-grown or founded here, among them Oasis and Take That. Due to its vibrant music and club scene the city is also affectionately known as "Madchester." Music is everywhere. Festivals take place all summer long, this year numbering 30. The Parklife Festival with 70,000 visitors is one of the biggest.Two local football clubs, Manchester City and Manchester United, play in the Premier League. The National Football Museum is dedicated to all who have played a part in English football history, like David Beckam. In the "Hall of Fame" you can see the best national players while screens show the greatest moments in the national sport."You'll never walk alone" from the musical Carousel, tells people not to give up hope. Rumor has it that Manchester United fans sang the song at Old Trafford back in the 1950s, before great rivals Liverpool made it world famous. No other fan song better epitomizes solidarity and team spirit - something Manchester will have great need of now. 