In a classroom in Venezuela's capital Caracas, four-year-old children sit in a circle holding rhythm sticks, shakers and a drum. A teacher sings to them and after a few moments, the students start to sing along too, playing body percussion and joyfully pounding on their drums. This is just one school that runs Venezuela's famous music program, El Sistema. Los Angeles Symphony conductor Gustavo Dudamel, as well as the conductor Carlos Izcaray and famous clarinetist Alcides Rodriguez attended the program, which teaches 827,000 students at 440 schools. No money for musical instrumentsBut the nationwide education program, which has helped working class students to study European classical music for over 40 years, now faces financial difficulties brought on by the country's severe economic and political crisis. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cpEtEl Sistema receives 80 percent of its funding from President Nicolas Maduro's socialist government.However, for the past two years, government subsidies failed to keep pace with inflation.A drop in international oil prices has led to an economic crisis in Venezuela; the country faces 750 percent inflation and 25 percent unemployment, and food and medicine are in short supply.Lack of foreign currency also makes it hard to import musical instruments and spare parts.Protests and violence put students at riskProtests against the Maduro government disrupt the country, as opposition supporters regularly block highways and shut down major cities.And when demonstrators throw rocks and fire bombs, police shoot teargas back at them. "In some cases the parents prefer to keep their children at home," said Tupac Amaru Rivas, who runs an El Sistema school in central Caracas. "Sometimes the teachers can't make it to school and we cancel the class."Opposition supporters block the city's main highway during a rally against Maduro in CaracasAfter weeks of violent protests, an 18-year-old student in El Sistema's national orchestra was killed at a rally in Caracas at the beginning of May.Conductor Dudamel responded by denouncing government repression, saying the "just cry of the people can't be ignored.""My entire life has been devoted to music and art as a way of transforming societies," he said. "I raise my voice against violence. I raise my voice against any form of repression. Nothing justifies bloodshed."School as refuge The crisis impacts teachers as well. Ollanton Velasquez, orchestra conductor at a school in Caracas, told DW that inflation eats away at their pay."We were once able to live entirely from our orchestra salaries," he told DW. "Now we look for other ways to supplement our income. Teachers can earn another salary by teaching at private high schools."Students are also suffering because of the economic crisis. Teachers provide them with food or transportation, if they are unable to get it themselves.Despite the difficulties, the school tries to carry on as usual. For younger children, El Sistema functions as a safe, after-school program for poor parents. "Children from poor and working class backgrounds always participated," Rivas said. "A lot of people consider classical music something for elites, but that's not true."Students and staff remain optimistic that El Sistema will overcome its current troubles. The Maduro government is increasing its subsidies in an effort to compensate for inflation, while El Sistema is working hard to increase private donations. It's on track to enroll one million students by end of 2017.But while El Sistema may overcome its current difficulties, the path may be more difficult for the country as a whole."I d been working as a journalist for a year when the protests started in 2014. Many independent media have come into existence in the last two years due to the government censorship, and that's how I became a reporter," Ivan Reyes told DW. He started capturing the new wave of riots on a daily basis at the end of March.The ruling by the Supreme Tribunal of Justice, which took away immunity from opposition parliamentarians, set off a surge of protests paralyzing the country. Although the protests were peaceful at first, government forces soon started throwing stones into the crowds. "Seriously, the police were given stones! This man, Lino Rivera, was hit by one on April 4," Reyes said.The marches take place all over Caracas every day, but they usually end on the city highways. This photo shows two officers of the national guard shooting tear gas grenades into the lines of protesters. "The projectiles should be shot above people s heads - so the international laws says," says Reyes. "But the armed forces shoot straight into the demonstrators."Juan Pablo Pernalete, 20, died after being hit by a projectile on April 26. The death of the student of Universidad Metropolitana triggered angry protests in the following days. "People were chanting 'Todos somos Juan! Todos somos Juan!'" ("We are all Juan") Reyes told DW. Congressmen Miguel Pizarro and Carlos Paparoni and the Governor of Miranda Henrique Capriles all came to pay tribute.Defense has become the key element for survival. "The people seem to be organized better every day," says Reyes. Against the wishes of the protest leaders, several groups have started using DIY weapons and even Molotov cocktails against the government forces, as seen in this photo. "It s a battle they can t win," says Reyes."Jes s was one of those injured in the demonstrations on May 4. He was gasping and stuttering after he got hit in the head. People in the crowd spotted him and carried him to one side where paramedics gave him first aid. The members of Primeros Auxilios UCV are the real heroes of history," Reyes said of the group of doctors who go to the protests every day to help the injured.On May 6, a women s protest against the regime was organized by Mesa de la Unidad Democr tica, Venezuela's opposition party. The march wasn t allowed to reach its destination, the Ministry of Justice, as they were halted by female officers of the national police. Former politician Mar a Corina Machado and the student president of Universidad Central de Venezuela were among the protesters.This image shot by Reyes went viral right after it was published by the author on May 8. The picture is one of the strongest snapshots from the Venezuelan protests, showing a young man walking down a road playing the Venezuelan anthem. "I don t see the protests ending soon," said Reyes. "Let s see which side gets tired first." Author: Ivan Reyes (Venezuela) 