A new report into soil contamination at a state-of-the-art facility that was designed to replace Tokyo's crumbling Tsukiji fish market has determined that toxic benzene is at levels 100 times above government-set safety limits while ground water also contains arsenic and cyanide. The new market is on a 40-hectare man-made island in Tokyo Bay that was previously occupied by a plant operated by Tokyo Gas and was scheduled to be operational in November last year, but the ongoing problem of contamination of the site has forced Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike to postpone the move from Tsukiji indefinitely.Adding to the scale of the problem, a panel set up to find a solution has estimated that it will cost an additional 12 billion yen (96 million euros, $107 million) to carry out remediation work at the site - but that even if the work does go ahead there are no guarantees that benzene levels will quickly fall to acceptable levels.Traders in limboMeanwhile, market traders are in limbo while others have lost money on equipment they already installed at the Toyosu site. The furor over the contamination also means that the public may never believe reports that foodstuffs that transit the market are safe for human consumption.The existing 57-acre Tsukiji site is now a prime location for redevelopers looking to build valuable waterfront apartmentsMarket traders - and the restaurant operators who purchase fresh fish that are presently landed at Tsukiji - "are at an utter loss over the whole situation," Andy Lunt, owner of the Shin-Hinomoto restaurant in the Yurakucho district of Tokyo, told DW."I have been going to Tsukiji for years for my fresh fish, and all the people that I have worked with over that time are really quite depressed about the whole thing," he said."Nobody knows what is going on. No decisions seem to be taken and it is worst for the companies that have spent a lot of money on refrigeration units and other equipment for the places they were allocated in the new site."That was all done at their expense and now they can't use any of it," Lunt said. The losses could be sufficient to bankrupt some smaller operators.The move to the Toyosu site was a pet project of former Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara and dates back to 2008. The stated reason was that the city needed an advanced new market to handle the growing amount of fish and fresh produce being consumed in and around Tokyo on a daily basis.A skating rink in western Japan has caused a stir by freezing some 5,000 dead fish into the ice in a macabre display. The "attraction" has been closed after drawing a wave of criticism on social media. (28.11.2016) For more than two years, tons of radioactive water has been seeping daily into the ocean from Japan's crippled nuclear plant in Fukushima. Experts examine the impact on fish stocks and how the leaks could be stopped. (14.08.2013) Japan is among the most controversial countries when it comes to whaling - even more so after its most recent intervention at the IWC meeting. DW discussed Japan's stance on whaling with its official representative. (27.10.2016) Foreign nationals detained at an immigration center in Nagoya are demanding better conditions and food but - most importantly - they want authorities to tackle their cases more swiftly. Julian Ryall reports. (18.05.2017) Construction of the new site also generated jobs, while the existing 57-acre Tsukiji site turned into a prime location for redevelopers looking to build valuable waterfront apartments.Hazardous chemicalsEven in the earliest stages of the work at the Toyosu site, however, problems were apparent - including the presence of dangerous chemicals.Given the scale of the contamination, experts called for all soil up to a depth of 2 meters to be removed and for 4.5 meters of clean soil to be laid as a layer across the entire site.A total of 85 billion yen was earmarked for this part of the project alone.But a subsequent investigation confirmed that the work was not carried out beneath a number of the structures that were later built on the site, including one building that was due to store wholesalers' supplies. The two other buildings affected are where the auctions for fish and seafood will be held and the area for the sale of vegetables and fruit.In November, 18 senior officials of the Tokyo administration were punished by having their pay cut for their roles in the botched decontamination work at the site. Political damageJun Okumura, a visiting scholar at the Meiji Institute for Global Affairs, says that even though Governor Koike cannot be blamed for the debacle, the opposition Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in the Tokyo assembly is looking to make the market a political issue ahead of the July 2 Tokyo metropolitan elections."The issue has now turned into how much political damage the LDP can inflict on the governor - even though she had nothing to do with the original plan for the new market," he said."She now needs to find the optimum solution, from both a political and an economic perspective, to the problem and carry it through," he added. "But I do not see how she is going to do that."The cloud of fear that has been generated around the site makes it difficult for Governor Koike to settle for some intermediate measure that promises safety, because the public will not believe her," he stressed.Andy Lunt agrees. "There are just too many problems with the new site for anyone to trust any promises that are ever made about it," he said. "It cost an absolute fortune to build and now it's just a white elephant that cannot even be turned into anything else."You can't build houses there or turn it into a park because if you can't sell fish there, then you can't have people living there or children playing in parks on the site," he said.As of Friday (10.04.2015), four Japanese whaling ships are on the way into the Pacific. By the end of this May, they may have killed up to 51 minke whales. Officials argue that the hunt is necessary for research into the effects whales have on coastal fishing. Just one year ago, the International Court of Justice in The Hague banned Japan from continuing its whale hunt.The hunt for the endangered sea mammals has been outlawed since 1986 - but Norwegian, Icelandic and Japanese companies continue to hunt whales. The Japanese, in particular, argue that their whaling program is conducted for purposes of scientific research. But Japan is also hunting ever less and less: this past January, two whaling ships set out to counting whale and take tissue samples.For 20 years, Australia tried unsuccessfully to persuade Japan to stop its whaling program through diplomatic channels - and finally took the country to court in 2013. In Late March 2014, the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague ruled Japan's whaling program is not for scientific purposes, and ordered a temporary stay.Whale stocks have stabilized since the ban was implemented 27 years ago. However, more than half of the 13 great whale species are classified as endangered or vulnerable. This includes blue whales, fin whales, sei whales, southern right whales and sperm whales. Whales can grow to be 33 meters (108 feet) long and weigh 190 tonnes (209 tons) - making them the largest animals on Earth.Hunted down in the name of science, the whales' meat is later sold to stores and specialty restaurants. The Tokyo-based Institute of Cetacean Research was founded exactly one year after the 1986 moratorium issued by the International Whaling Commission.Whale meat has long been on dinner plates in Japan. Especially after World War II, the population of the island nation depended on whale meat. Schools and canteens cherished it because it was cheaper than beef. But times have changed - and now whale meat accounts for only 1 percent of meat consumed in Japan.You can find up to 7,000 tons of whale meat stored in Japanese warehouses. Due to a lack of buyers, a Japanese firm had fin whale meat processed into dog food. However, protests by international animal rights groups made the company announce that it was discontinuing production of the dog treats.Despite all this, many Japanese still support whale hunting and decry the actions of environmental campaigners like Greenpeace as eco-terrorism. Japan's government has refused to give in to international pressure, and has been subsidizing whaling programs since 1988 with around 800 million yen (6.3 million euros) a year.Iceland and Norway also have whaling programs in defiance of the ban. Both countries lodged objections to the moratorium, and don't feel the need to abide by it.Indigenous people such as the Chukchi in Russia or the Inuit in Canada are officially entitled to hunt whales as long as they don't do it for commercial purposes. For these people, whaling is a tradition that goes back hundreds of years. The sea mammals provide them with meat, oil and bones. Every part of the animal is used.Environmental groups played an important role in issuance of the whaling ban. For decades, they led spectacular campaigns to draw the world's attention to the issue of whale hunting. The organization Sea Shepherd is known for its controversial and aggressive approach to protecting the giants of the sea.Many countries that used to have whaling programs are now in the business of whale watching. Some of the whale watchers in Japan and Norway are former whale hunters who now share their knowledge with tourists. Also in Japan, an ever-increasing number of citizens would rather see these animals in the wild than on their dinner plates. Author: Michael Hartlep, Fabian Schmidt / gd, db