German Chancellor Angela Merkel will host France's next president, Emmanuel Macron, in Berlin on Monday. The two leaders are expected to draw the upcoming EU roadmap and discuss new European investment programs. (12.05.2017) Emmanuel Macron has big plans for Europe. In order overcome the current crisis, he wants more community, more solidarity and more investment. And Germany is worried that it will have to foot the bill. (11.05.2017) Emmanuel Macron has been inaugurated president of France on a day filled with pomp and ceremony. After a bold and unexpected rise to the top, he now faces the task of governing a polarized nation. (14.05.2017) Only hours after Emmanuel Macron's election victory, and with his inauguration still a week away, the new resident of the Elysee palace was already receiving early advice from his partners on the other side of the Rhine: No communitization of debt, no politics on credit, no special treatment for France. Such was the advice that German Union party (CDU/CSU) and liberal FDP (Free Democratic Party) politicians immediately offered their French neighbor, Macron.&nbsp;&nbsp;Hello is everything ok, or have you lost your minds? The relief that many felt about the 39-year-old founder of "En Marche!"&nbsp;having defeated Marine Le Pen and thus hindering the likely destruction of the EU with a uniquely pro-European campaign, had barely sunken in before the niggling began. Politicians began raising yellow cards and drawing red lines immediately. Yet now is the time when Germany, above all, should be focused on developing new EU reforms together with France. Rather than wagging fingers and issuing warnings, it would seem that now would be the time to listen to what Macron actually intends to do: Reason and respect, I would argue, dictate as much.Enough pressure from the left and the right at homeMy fellow compatriots: Give him the customary 100 days generally afforded those who are new to their post. Or do we really want to see Macron crash and burn, right from the beginning? He is under enough pressure from right-wing populists like Marine Le Pen and left-wing populists like Jean-Luc Melenchon. No, that cannot be in the best interest of the European Union, nor of Germany.Greens politician, Franziska BrantnerRight now, responsible parties in Berlin and Brussels should be positive, or at least open, about Macron's reform ideas. And the rule should also be that&nbsp;Paris is dealt with as an equal. Angela Merkel, it must be said, has announced that she will work with France to develop new investment initiatives and strengthen the euro zone.Emmanuel Macron has presented proposals for a more democratic, sustainable and cooperative EU, as well as outlining what future-oriented paths out of the euro crisis might look like. Many in Germany want an improved and more cohesive EU, too. These are good conditions for a revitalization of Franco-German relations.Euro rescue mechanisms were created outside of existing European treaties, and thus lack democratic legitimacy and effective parliamentary control. So let us forge a new alliance of national parliaments! The European Stability Mechanism (ESM) must ultimately be reconstructed as a European monetary fund that exists under the democratic control of the European Parliament. That would also send a clear signal to all those who are not yet members of the currency union: The strengthening of the euro zone is not directed against you!Yes to a common euro zone budgetMacron supports the idea of a joint euro zone budget. That is a sensible proposal! Such a budget would make investment in shared innovation possible, and furthermore, it would help member countries in times of national emergency.The momentum is there! Brexit has shocked&nbsp;many Europeans into action. In Austria, pro-European candidate Alexander Van der Bellen won the presidency; in the Netherlands, the Greens party won a record number of parliamentary seats by campaigning on pro-EU policies. Every week thousands of EU citizens are taking to the streets to show just how strongly the "Pulse of Europe" is beating.As Europeans, we can only move forward&nbsp;if we are united. One-sided action will&nbsp;lead us off course. We must decisively combat inflammatory nationalism. We should get moving with our French partners: Toward a Europe that can withstand international challenges.Franziska Brantner has been a member of German Federal Parliament for the Greens since 2013. She was previously a member of the European Parliament for 4 years. Have something to say? Please leave your comments below. The thread closes automatically after 24 hours.&nbsp;The Elysee Palace, located in Paris' eighth arrondissement, is truly one of the many crowning pieces of architecture of the French capital. The gates of 55 Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honore shield the president's palace from the hustle and bustle of the streets of Paris - despite being situated in the heart of the city. . On the inside, the grand edifice also meets all the standards expected of a presidential palace. The ostentatious dining room is fittingly luxurious, from its massive chandeliers to its brocade curtains. It is accentuated by golden pillars around its edges. Dignataries from around the world have dined here, savoring the best of French cuisine. In fact, the presidential palace is renowned for its haute cuisine. German Chancellor Angela Merkel is rumored to have sent her personal chef there to learn a lesson or two from the French. Being a chef at the Elysee Palace, however, is a hard gig: it is estimated that the kitchen team produces 95,000 meals per year, ranging from sandwiches to state dinners.One of the many delicacies prepared the Elysee Palace is the "Galette des Rois", which means "king cake" in English. Tradition has it that on Three Kings Day each year, a large cake is made with a little figurine hidden inside it. If the president is the one who finds it in his slice, he gets to be the king of France - but only for one day. A former chef working at the Elysee Palace once told reporters that the silverware and crockery used at the presidential home are so valuable that they're kept under lock and key inside a vault. Nevertheless, those granted a visit with the president apparently often still manage to take a souvenir back home - usually a teaspoon.We don't know yet whether the Macrons have green thumbs or not, but they will have plenty of space to do some gardening if they want to. The grounds are more like a park, with lots of nooks an crannies for a vegetable patch or a rose garden. Former US first lady Michelle Obama, for instance, apparently rather enjoyed gardening at the White House.With 369 rooms and halls in total it's unlikely that there will ever be a scarcity of space at the Elysee Palace. After all, the personal chambers of the president only make up the east wing of the building, leaving plenty of room to play with. Should, however, the president not find things up to scratch, there's a team to make sure that everything is done to his utmost satisfaction.Before Emmanuel Macron can move into the Elysee Palace his predecessor, Francois Hollande, will have to vacate the presidential premises. Saying goodbye to such spectacular views might be difficult, but perhaps the outgoing president will find some comfort in knowing that many have come and gone before him. And one day, it will also be Macron's turn to say "au revoir" to Elysee Palace. The palace has been home to the French heads of state since 1873. The majority of French presidents have elected to reside in the luxurious premises. For the next five years, Emmanuel Macron will be joining their ranks - and perhaps for even longer. We wish Macron and the First Lady all the best at their new home, and vive la France! Author: Vera Kern (ss)