Venezuela's embattled government announced Tuesday that at least four more men, aged&nbsp;between 17 and&nbsp;33 years old, have&nbsp;died of gunshot wounds.A state police officer was detained in connection with the death of the 33-year-old in the western state of Tachira.&nbsp;Video of the man's final moments&nbsp;had circulated on social media in Venezuela. An 18-year-old was also shot dead in the state.Tuesday's youngest victim, a 17-year-old boy,&nbsp;was shot in the head at a protest in the central state of Barinas on Monday and died the following day. Reporting on the teenager's death, the state prosecutor's office said that "a group of people arrived and started shooting, injuring the young person in the brain."The fourth victim, aged 31, died during surgery on Tuesday after being shot during a demonstration just south of the capital, Caracas."I d been working as a journalist for a year when the protests started in 2014. Many independent media have come into existence in the last two years due to the government censorship, and that's how I became a reporter," Ivan Reyes told DW. He started capturing the new wave of riots on a daily basis at the end of March.The ruling by the Supreme Tribunal of Justice, which took away immunity from opposition parliamentarians, set off a surge of protests paralyzing the country. Although the protests were peaceful at first, government forces soon started throwing stones into the crowds. "Seriously, the police were given stones! This man, Lino Rivera, was hit by one on April 4," Reyes said.The marches take place all over Caracas every day, but they usually end on the city highways. This photo shows two officers of the national guard shooting tear gas grenades into the lines of protesters. "The projectiles should be shot above people s heads - so the international laws says," says Reyes. "But the armed forces shoot straight into the demonstrators."Juan Pablo Pernalete, 20, died after being hit by a projectile on April 26. The death of the student of Universidad Metropolitana triggered angry protests in the following days. "People were chanting 'Todos somos Juan! Todos somos Juan!'" ("We are all Juan") Reyes told DW. Congressmen Miguel Pizarro and Carlos Paparoni and the Governor of Miranda Henrique Capriles all came to pay tribute.Defense has become the key element for survival. "The people seem to be organized better every day," says Reyes. Against the wishes of the protest leaders, several groups have started using DIY weapons and even Molotov cocktails against the government forces, as seen in this photo. "It s a battle they can t win," says Reyes."Jes s was one of those injured in the demonstrations on May 4. He was gasping and stuttering after he got hit in the head. People in the crowd spotted him and carried him to one side where paramedics gave him first aid. The members of Primeros Auxilios UCV are the real heroes of history," Reyes said of the group of doctors who go to the protests every day to help the injured.On May 6, a women s protest against the regime was organized by Mesa de la Unidad Democr tica, Venezuela's opposition party. The march wasn t allowed to reach its destination, the Ministry of Justice, as they were halted by female officers of the national police. Former politician Mar a Corina Machado and the student president of Universidad Central de Venezuela were among the protesters.This image shot by Reyes went viral right after it was published by the author on May 8. The picture is one of the strongest snapshots from the Venezuelan protests, showing a young man walking down a road playing the Venezuelan anthem. "I don t see the protests ending soon," said Reyes. "Let s see which side gets tired first." Author: Ivan Reyes (Venezuela) Violence flared up on Tuesday after opposition supporters held their latest series of sit-ins and roadblocks across the country in a bid to oust the government of President Nicolas Maduro.Political unrest in Venezuela erupted on April 1 as government opposition groups responded angrily to a Supreme Court decision to strip the legislative branch of its power. Maduro's detractors saw the decision as a blatant power grab by the president and his allies.Maduro later reversed the decision amid increasing unrest, but protests have continued with demands for fresh elections in part due to complaints about&nbsp;Venezuela's desperate economic situation.Violent flare-upsPolice have sought to quell&nbsp;many&nbsp;of the&nbsp;demonstrations by firing tear gas, water cannons or rubber bullets into the crowds, while a number of protestors have responded by hurling rocks or&nbsp;Molotov cocktails.&nbsp;After six weeks of unrest, at least 42 people have been killed, most whom have been young men shot at protests or killed during looting. Hundreds more have been injured.Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands have taken to the streets in the weeks since to call for new elections. They show no signs of stopping.As of March, Venezuela's inflation rate surpassed 220 percent, according to the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics. The country's largest bill - the 100 bolivar note - was worth just $0.04 at the end of last year. Shopping trips now require stacks, or even bags, of cash to buy the bare necessities.An estimated 80 percent of food items and other basics were in short supply by last year. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally can enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement.In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen otherwise only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever.Electricity blackouts and fuel shortages have also driven Venezuelans to desperation. Despite Venezuela's possession of the world's largest oil reserves, drivers face long lines at the gas pump. A 50-percent collapse in oil prices in 2014 devastated the oil-dependent economy. In 2013, revenues were $80 billion. That figure dropped to $20 billion by 2016, according to IMF figures.Lower poverty rates, better education and health, and economic growth: These are all part of the legacy of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Equally part of the socialist's legacy was mismanagement. Not only did he fail to keep the state oil company up to date under increased government control, but his government also overspent despite a drop in oil production after 2006.Chavez's hand-picked successor, Nicolas Maduro, has been in office for four years and has two more to go. The opposition center-right coalition, which has controlled the National Assembly since 2015, has accused him of "abandoning his post" by failing to stem the economic devastation. It has also denounced him for rights abuses.The most recent example of Maduro's rights abuses was to silence opposition leader, Henrique Capriles, pictured above. In early April, Capriles was banned from seeking public office for 15 years due to "administrative irregularities" in his role as a governor. Capriles had been at the forefront of demands for a referendum on Maduro. The ban further inflamed tensions with protesters.Aside from protests, the opposition collected 2 million signatures for a referendum last year, roughly 10 times the number required. And in a move against the Supreme Court - and in lieu of impeachment hearings - it also held a symbolic trial for Maduro. Numerous attempts to stymie its attempts to pressure the government have only emboldened these lawmakers.Last September saw some 1 million Venezuelans march on Caracas. The opposition hopes April 19 protests - "the mother of all protests" to coincide with Maduro's fourth annivesary - will be even bigger. Meanwhile, the international community looks on with concern. The Organization for American States is mulling a suspension for Venezuela unless it calls elections to emerge from "dictatorship." Author: Kathleen Schuster Arrests have been made in seven homicide cases, four of which were perpetrated by state or national police officers. The opposition has pinned the blame for the increasing bloodshed on the state's security services and armed pro-government factions known as "colectivos." Maduro, meanwhile, has accused the opposition of working with criminal gangs to incite violence.Outside responsesThe United Nations Security Council is due to meet Wednesday to discuss the escalating violence in Venezuela, at the request of the US. Wednesday's talks will mark the first instance that body has discussed the crisis.Meanwhile, the Organization of American States voted this week to convene a delegation of foreign ministers&nbsp;to discuss the crisis.In a statement released on Tuesday, the group's secretary, Luis Almagro, called on the Maduro government to hold early elections. He also singled out Venezuela's national guard, Antonio Jose Benavides Torres, and Interior Minister Nestor Reverol, writing that the two men "lead the two institutions charged with the use of force in Venezuela. In this sense, they are both responsible for every aggression, every shot and every death." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cpEt