In some regions, the climate is changing so quickly that forests probably won't be able to provide basic functions - such as timber production and protection from landslides and snow avalanches, as well as food, wildlife habitat and recreation - that people take for granted, scientists said at the recent annual assembly of the&nbsp;European Geosciences Union."The tree line shift is something that everybody can already see, with young trees growing in new areas," said Matthias Jochner, a forest ecologist with ETH Z rich, describing his new tree-ring study across the Swiss Alps.The results support previous estimates that vegetation zones will shift upward by 500 to 700 meters (1,600 to 2,300 feet). That change will be especially noticeable at the mid-elevations, exactly where forest-dependent communities in the Alps now thrive on agriculture and tourism.Forests are recreation and wildlife areas - they also provide environmental services including protecting water supplyAt lower elevations, oaks and other broadleaf trees will start to dominate the forests, completely changing familiar landscapes. Trees sprouting now will be living in a much-altered climate by the time they reach middle age.In Swiss conifer forests, already having seen an average temperature increase of 1.9 degrees Celsius (3.4 degrees Fahrenheit) since the 1800s, and with another 1 to 2 degrees Celsius projected by 2100, trees are becoming ever more susceptible to fires and deadly insect outbreaks - twin forces that will play a key role&nbsp;in reshaping forests around the world over the decades to come.The width of the tree rings Jochner examined show exactly how different species, and even individual trees, respond to warmer temperatures and changes in moisture.And that's exactly the kind of information farmers and foresters are increasingly seeking to make decisions about how and where to try and conserve trees, or whether to plant new species more suited to future climate conditions.North America transformedProactive forest management could avert large-scale forest die-offs driven by global warming, like the 1990s outbreak of tree-killing bark beetles in western North America.Global warming caused an outbreak of tree-killing insects in Colorado in the early 2000sThat wiped out trees across about 200,000 square kilometers (77,000 square miles) - an area more than twice the size of Austria. In Canada, the outbreak caused a loss of 53 percent of the country's commercial pine production, according to Natural Resources Canada.In the Rocky Mountains of Colorado and Wyoming, and in California's Sierra Nevada, recent studies have shown that the climate has become too warm for some pine species to re-grow after fires or insect outbreaks. Those forests are quickly changing to brush- and grasslands.Scientists have researched the same phenomenon in the Four Corners region of the Desert Southwest, where climate change triggered an outbreak of ips beetles that destroyed millennia-old pi on pine forests. These may be gone forever as the region bakes under global warming.Researchers are also keeping an eye on tropical forests, especially the Amazon - often called the lungs of the Earth - to see how they will be affected. Some studies suggest the Amazon could be fairly resilient in the face of global warming through 2100, although it faces serious deforestation pressures.Act now to save forestsEuropean forests grow in smaller patches so they re not as susceptible to large-scale impacts. But climate change will still have significant regional impacts.Beech forests across Central Europe will dwindle as global warming causes soil to dry out and increases droughtClimate models for Great Britain project such an extent of warming and drying by 2080, that much of the storied lowland beech forests won't be able to survive, said Jianjun Yu, with the University of Oxford Environmental Change Institute."Conservation of beech woodlands should be prioritized in the future," said Yu, warning that England's northern and eastern forests are most susceptible to the extreme droughts and heat waves that global warming will cause.Some northern forests expandingOne place where forests will benefit from warming is in the far north, where Russian forest researcher Viacheslav Kharuk, of the Sukachev Forest Institute in Krasnoyarsk, Russia shows how taiga forests are racing toward the North Pole.In the widespread "ribbon" forests of the region, Siberian pines are filling in gaps and surging northward. Thanks to excess carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, the growth rate for 50-year-old trees has doubled since the start of the 20th century, he said.Yet at the same time, this has been tempered by insect outbreaks, which are surging in tandem with steeply climbing regional temperatures since the 1980s.Forests provide habitat for 80 percent of terrestrial biodiversity, including many birdsForestry disasterOverall, global warming is a disaster from a forestry perspective, with environmental services the forests provide under threat for extended periods of time, according to Klaus Katzensteiner, with the University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences in Vienna.These ongoing changes endanger commercial forest production in the short-term. Over the longer term, they threaten to pinch water supplies, increase erosion and stream pollution, and hinder forests' abilities to remove CO2 from the atmosphere."I also see it from a societal perspective. In the 1980s, I started my scientific career when 'Waldsterben' was a serious issue," he said, referring to a widespread forest die-off in Central Europe caused by acid rain."[We saw] the widespread areas of dead forests. Society reacted. Enforcement of clean air acts were a solution to the problem."Maybe we need more proof of our impact on climate to overcome climate change skepticism and to speed up the Energiewende [transition to renewable fuels]," he concluded.Forests, woods, groves, copses... all of these woodland areas take centre stage on the International Day of Forests on March 21st. The day was proclaimed by the United Nations in 2012. With its annually changing themes, it is all about raising awareness of forests and their diverse uses. This year the theme is "Forests &amp; Energy." Forests are the basis for many types of energy. When used as a fuel, wood can come in handy in solid, gas, and liquid form. Woodfuels such as solid firewood and charcoal, wood gas, and liquid bio-oil or bio-ethanol provide one in three households worldwide with energy. That equals 2.4 billion people globally. Woodfuels' primary domestic uses are cooking, heating and boiling water.Good old forests and the fuels they generate are ancient, yet sustainable sources of energy. They account for approximately 40 percent of our global renewable energies. In contrast to fossil fuels, the emissions that are set free into the atmosphere when burning woodfuels are later removed again when trees are planted, because they make use of and store CO2.About 50 percent of wood is used for energy purposes each year, mostly just burnt for fuel. This percentage rises to 60 percent in Asia and 90 percent in Africa. But the smoke causes problems, particularly for people's health. 4.3 million people die every year because of indoor air pollution. That is more than deaths from malaria, tuberculosis and HIV combined.Woods are an important source of employment. In developing countries, around 883 million people base their livelihoods fully or partly on forests. With new, advanced biofuels picking up, this number could increase - also in developed countries.The popularity of pellets and briquettes has significantly increased over the years - in 2015, 28 million tons were produced. They are not only smaller and easier to handle, they can also be produced from other feedstock, such as grasses or waste-sawdust. Another benefit of the energy carrier: compared to liquid or gas from fossil fuels, pellets are safer to transport.Wood is only good for heat? Not necessarily. With our planet heating up, trees can also act as coolers. In overheated cities, trees can cool their environment down by up to eight degrees Celsius (14 degrees Fahrenheit). As a consequence, cooler city air requires less energy for air conditioning in buildings. The trees are working their magic again.The rainforest plays a key role in sequestering CO2. The key Amazon rainforest is under threat from deforestation as trees are felled and areas cleared for farming, mining or construction projects. Scientists warn that these forests must be saved if the world's climate is to be protected. Author: Jessie-May Franken