Newly elected President Emmanuel Macron greeted Russian President Vladimir Putin with a firm handshake outside the Palace of Versailles on Monday.Putin's visit is being seen as an opportunity for the two leaders to turn the page on the strained relationship between Moscow and Macron's predecessor Francois Hollande. "Many things in the future will depend on the first meeting," Alexander Orlov, the Russian ambassador to France, told Europe 1 radio. "It is very important that we begin to dissipate the mistrust that has built up in recent years."During the French election campaign, the Russian leader was widely seen as supporting Macron's contender, far-right leader Marine Le Pen. There were also allegations that Russian hackers had tried to interfere in the election process by mounting a smear campaign against Macron. Moscow has denied all allegations of meddling. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ddRK'No breakthroughs expected'Macron is the first Western leader to meet with Putin since the Group of Seven's summit in Sicily over the weekend, where relations with Russia were on the agenda."It is essential to talk to Russia because there are many international issues that will not be resolved without a tough exchange with the Russians," Macron said at the G7 gathering. He added that he would make "not a single concession" to Russia on the conflict in eastern Ukraine.Relations between the European Union and Russia have been fraught since Moscow's annexation of Crimea in 2014 and the subsequent insurgency in eastern Ukraine. France was one the main proponents of sanctions that have significantly damaged trade between the EU and Russia.The Ukraine conflict was expected to be on the agenda at Monday's meeting, as well as a number of other disputed issues such as the war in Syria and Russia's ties with the EU.Nabi Abdullaev, associate director for Russia at the global consultancy Control Risks Group, told the German Press Agency (DPA) the meeting would be mainly symbolic."There will be no breakthroughs, but still it would definitely be a step toward improving the relations between Russia and France," he said.Handshake controversyIn welcoming Putin, Macron did not repeat the lengthy, white-knuckle handshake he gave US President Donald Trump at last week's NATO summit.In an interview with the Journal du Dimanche, published on Sunday, the 39-year-old said the grip had been completely intentional."My handshake with him - it wasn't innocent," Macron said. "Donald Trump, the Turkish president or the Russian president think in terms of the balance of power, which doesn't bother me. I don't believe in a diplomacy of public insult, but I don't let anything pass in my bilateral dialogues; that is how you gain respect." nm/tj (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa)