An investigation that turned up&nbsp;World War II German army helmets and other Nazi symbols stowed in the barracks has brought to light a legion of questions regarding possible far-right extremists in the German military. One of them is whether the Bundeswehr is a meeting place for right-wing extremists."The Bundeswehr fundamentally offers many things that appeal to right-wing extremists: Weapons, equipment, war, a harsh tone, hierarchy," said Captain Florian Kling, a spokesman for the Darmst dter Signal, a military watchdog group made up of active and retired soldiers.&nbsp;Zero tolerance for extremistsThe Bundeswehr has taken a zero-tolerance approach toward extremists for years, Kling told DW. But how can a soldier with extremist tendencies be identified?"These days, no one is open about being a neo-Nazi, making a Nazi salute or pinning a swastika to the wall or their chests," he said, adding that modern extremists keep their views under wraps.The Bundeswehr is neither a shelter for right-wing radicals nor a breeding ground for right-wing terrorism. This has been stressed by many experts in recent days amid the scandal of two officers being arrested for allegedly plotting attacks. The majority of soldiers firmly support Germany's democratic values. Yet other observers have said there seem to be conditions in the military that encourage right-wing extremist ideology.Bundeswehr a mirror of society?Some point to the abolition of compulsory military service as one reason why extremist views have apparently found some fertile ground in the Bundeswehr. Germany has expected its military to reflect its society - often calling soldiers "citizens in uniform" - but since the end of compulsory military service, the barracks are less socially mixed, critics say.Michael Wolffsohn, a former historian at the Bundeswehr University in Munich said he doing away with conscriptions has been a key problem. The abolition of the compulsory military service allegedly opened the army to circles that are much closer to armed forces, militarization and violence.Do these men reflect all of German society?"Any armed force without general compulsory military service is no longer a reflection of society, but is rather a disproportionate kind of extremist force," Wolffsohn said in an interview with the public radio broadcaster Deutschlandfunk.Kling was also critical of the lack of social diversification in the military since the end of mandatory military service. Some 70 percent of volunteer soldiers made the decision to work in the military during their mandatory conscription."This meant that there was more diversity, perhaps even liberal, critical, left-leaning minds, which made the whole system more heterogeneous," he said.But the existence of radical views in the military does not necessarily mean it's no longer a reflection of society, according to some. Marco Seliger, editor in chief of the magazine "Loyal," a publication of the reservist association, said such far-right, far-left and Islamic tendencies have existed in Germany for years. The alarming difference is that soldiers have access to weapons and training to use them.Seliger, an army reserve soldier, said the fact that right-wing opinions and radical views spread through barracks is evidence of a structural problem in the military. Superiors now have less time to engage with their subordinates."These days, a company commander is suffocated by bureaucracy," Seliger said. "There is so much paperwork, that he or she hardly has time to check on what individual soldiers are doing."According to European working regulations, the Bundeswehr is also subject to a 41.5-hour week. This means that there is no time left to get to know people over a beer in the evenings - and perhaps to identify radical tendencies early on.Controversial Wehrmacht symbolsWeapons like these, found in a German barracks in France, were used by the NazisSo far, hardly anyone seems to have perceived the danger that Nazi symbols could pose. Steel helmets from the Nazi era, pictures of soldiers, and barracks named after Nazi officers - in many Bundeswehr barracks there are memorials of the dark chapter in German history between 1933 and 1945.The controversial Heritage Decree of 1982 allows the possession of Wehrmacht devotional objects - provided they are displayed in a "historically classified" way. Idealizing the Nazi period is not the decree's intention.Many soldiers with moderate views may have hardly taken notice of such symbols. Far-right extremists may, however, have taken a very different message away from the memorials."Right-wing soldiers could have felt encouraged by this," Kling said. He said he sees such Nazi army memorabilia as a possible explanation for "out of control developments in the barracks."Now Germany's Defense Ministry appears to have also recognized the problem. Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen has announced plans for a series of reforms to the military, including a review of the Heritage Decree.Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen wanted to show she's not blind to problems among her own troops. In light of the most recent scandal, she openly criticized army leadership, saying the Bundeswehr had an "attitude problem." But Bundeswehr officials found her comments to be outrageous. Their response to the defense minister's criticism: "Leadership goes from the top down."The story causing the uproar: Bundeswehr lieutenant Franco A. was allegedly planning a terrorist attack and led a double life, pretending to be a Syrian refugee. He was granted partial asylum status as a war refugee in December 2016. His alleged goal: another attack blamed on a refugee. Bundeswehr officials are said to have known about Franco A.'s right-wing tendencies since 2014, but did nothing.The Bundeswehr is currently investigating 275 cases of suspected right-wing extremism. But they're also dealing with other types of scandals. In March 2017, the public learned about the case of a lance corporal who had suffered months of abuse in a Bavarian mountain rangers unit. The victim reported being threatened and sexually harassed in 2015 and 2016. Prosecutors investigated 14 people.The biggest scandal of von der Leyen's term so far: the horror stories coming out of the Staufer army base in Pfullendorf. In January, it was revealed that superior officers there forced recruits to undress and perform sexually-motivated acts and filmed them. Female recruits were forced to pole dance as part of an "entrance exam." The top Bundeswehr training commander was fired as a result.According to a report from Germany's federal parliamentary commissioner for the Bundeswehr, Hans-Peter Bartels, 2016 wasn't a great year for the Bundeswehr, either. There were around 60 incidents related to alleged right-wing extremism or "violations against the bases of Germany's free democratic constitutional structure." Troops shared anti-Semitic images and music or did the Nazi salute.The Bundeswehr wasn't immune to scandals before von der Leyen became defense minister in December 2013. One that garnered significant public attention was the death of a 25-year-old recruit on the Navy training vessel Gorch Fock in 2010. The woman fell from the rigging during an exercise. As a consequence, other cadets refused to climb the rigging. Officer training on the ship was suspended.Directly after World War II, Germany was not allowed to have an army. The Bundeswehr had its start in West Germany in 1955. After reunification, the Bundeswehr took in 20,000 soldiers from East Germany's armed forces. A big change came in 1999, when the Bundeswehr first participated in an international conflict: the Kosovo War. Before that, they had only gone abroad for peacekeeping missions.Today the Bundeswehr has roughly 178,200 active soldiers. As of March 2017, 11.4 percent of them are women. Until 2011, men were required to do mandatory military service, the length of which varied between nine and 18 months. Today, the Bundeswehr has to appeal to young people to recruit soldiers. The most recent scandals are making that that more and more difficult. Author: Carla Bleiker