US President Donald Trump joined the chorus of laughs at his own expense on Wednesday, addressing the brewing "covfefe" mystery with a question of his own.That referenced a wild and for some worrisome midnight tweet in which Trump left what appeared to be a mangled word at the unfinished end of a complicated thought.Trump has made himself no stranger to laments about the media, but his latest media lament was for many his strangest yet: "Despite the constant negative press covfefe."While many tweeters scratched their heads, others thought it more helpful to help the US president complete his (possible) thought:With Trump engaged in an on- and offline war of words with Germany's government, there was even early attention from a politician in Berlin: Left party parliamentarian Stefan Liebich endorsed both covfefe and the medium that birthed it.Not an unprecedented (sp?) caseEven before winning the US presidency on a minority vote last fall, Trump had demonstrated an affinity for Twitter, though not always a knack for it. In 2013, he took to the site to commemorate, in his own way, the victims of the 2001 terror attacks on New York and Washington.Three years later, in the surreal two months between his election and inauguration, Trump was humbled by an "unpresidented" homemade homophone.Shortly after assuming his new role, Trump tweeted that he was "honered" to work for Americans.That was quickly deleted and reposted with corrected spelling. Covfefe, presumably supposed to be "coverage," remains up for now. The rest of the sentence Trump planned to divulge remains a riddle.US President Donald Trump has offered both candid praise and unabashed criticism of Germany and its policies. From calling German Chancellor Angela Merkel as "possibly the greatest world leader" to describing her open-door refugee policy as a "catastrophic mistake," here are his most memorable quotes regarding Germany."Germany's like sitting back silent, collecting money and making a fortune with probably the greatest leader in the world today, Merkel," Trump said in a 2015 interview with US news magazine Time."The Germans are bad, very bad ... Look at the millions of cars they sell in the US. Terrible. We'll stop that," Trump said during a NATO leaders summit, according to German news magazine Der Spiegel, which cited sources at the alliance's meeting."As far as wiretapping, I guess, by - you know - [the Obama] administration, at least we have something in common, perhaps," Trump said in March during a press conference with Merkel. He was referring to his unproven allegations that ex-President Barack Obama tapped his phone. There was widespread anger in Germany in 2013 when it was revealed the US National Security Agency tapped Merkel's phone."I think she made one very catastrophic mistake and that was taking all of these illegals (sic), you know taking all of the people from wherever they come from," Trump said in a joint interview published by German daily Bild and British newspaper The Times, referring to Merkel's open-door policy for refugees fleeing war and persecution."Despite what you have heard from the fake news, I had a great meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Nevertheless, Germany owes vast sums of money to NATO and the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany," Trump said in a two-tweet statement after meeting with Merkel for the first time in March. Author: Lewis Sanders IV 