Venezuela's fired-up president, Nicolas Maduro, launched a scathing attack on the US and Trump administration on Friday, accusing the US of trying to intervene in his socialist government's sovereignty.Speaking before a crowd of supporters, Maduro told US President Donald Trump to "go home" and "get your pig hands out of here."Read more: Venezuela's crisis takes a toll on educationMaduro's remarks came after Trump, speaking alongside his Colombian counterpart Juan Manuel Santos, on Thursday openly expressed his dismay at how a country with the world's greatest oil reserves could find itself engulfed in deep recession and political upheaval. Trump described Venezuela's current state as a "disgrace to humanity." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2dFZJAlso on Thursday, the US Treasury Department slapped fresh sanctions on eight judges on Venezuela's Supreme Courtand close allies of Maduro. The US said the justices "usurped the authority of Venezuela's democratically-elected legislature."Venezuela's Foreign Minister Delcy Rodriguez said the sanctions proved the US was complicit in "the destabilization of Venezuela."Near-daily clashesVenezuela has been engulfed in near-daily violent protests for almost two months. Clashes have so far left at least 47 people dead, after prosecutors on Friday raised the earlier death toll of 43. Hundreds more have been injured.Read more: Venezuela sees a sharp rise in child mortalitiesThe demonstrations were spurred by a decision by Venezuela's Supreme Court to strip the opposition-controlled legislative branch of its powers. Maduro's detractors saw the decision as a blatant power grab by the president and his allies. Although Maduro later reversed the decision, protests have continued in response to the country's desperate economic situation and depleting supply of basic goods, such as food and medicine.Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands have taken to the streets in the weeks since to call for new elections. They show no signs of stopping.As of March, Venezuela's inflation rate surpassed 220 percent, according to the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics. The country's largest bill - the 100 bolivar note - was worth just $0.04 at the end of last year. Shopping trips now require stacks, or even bags, of cash to buy the bare necessities.An estimated 80 percent of food items and other basics were in short supply by last year. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally can enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement.In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen otherwise only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever.Electricity blackouts and fuel shortages have also driven Venezuelans to desperation. Despite Venezuela's possession of the world's largest oil reserves, drivers face long lines at the gas pump. A 50-percent collapse in oil prices in 2014 devastated the oil-dependent economy. In 2013, revenues were $80 billion. That figure dropped to $20 billion by 2016, according to IMF figures.Lower poverty rates, better education and health, and economic growth: These are all part of the legacy of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Equally part of the socialist's legacy was mismanagement. Not only did he fail to keep the state oil company up to date under increased government control, but his government also overspent despite a drop in oil production after 2006.Chavez's hand-picked successor, Nicolas Maduro, has been in office for four years and has two more to go. The opposition center-right coalition, which has controlled the National Assembly since 2015, has accused him of "abandoning his post" by failing to stem the economic devastation. It has also denounced him for rights abuses.The most recent example of Maduro's rights abuses was to silence opposition leader, Henrique Capriles, pictured above. In early April, Capriles was banned from seeking public office for 15 years due to "administrative irregularities" in his role as a governor. Capriles had been at the forefront of demands for a referendum on Maduro. The ban further inflamed tensions with protesters.Aside from protests, the opposition collected 2 million signatures for a referendum last year, roughly 10 times the number required. And in a move against the Supreme Court - and in lieu of impeachment hearings - it also held a symbolic trial for Maduro. Numerous attempts to stymie its attempts to pressure the government have only emboldened these lawmakers.Last September saw some 1 million Venezuelans march on Caracas. The opposition hopes April 19 protests - "the mother of all protests" to coincide with Maduro's fourth annivesary - will be even bigger. Meanwhile, the international community looks on with concern. The Organization for American States is mulling a suspension for Venezuela unless it calls elections to emerge from "dictatorship." Author: Kathleen Schuster Venezuela braces itself for 'biggest protest yet'Venezuela's opposition said it planned to stage the biggest protest yet on Saturday to mark the 50th day ofanti-government demonstrations."On day 50 of the resistance we will make the biggest show of strength so far in this period," Juan Andres Mejia, a lawmaker leading the demonstrations, said. The new rallies would "show those who think they have made us retreat that we are more active than ever," he added.Vatican offers to mediateOfficials in the Vatican said on Friday that they hoped the opportunity would arise for the Catholic Church state to mediate talks between the government and opposition to put an end to the violence.Speaking to Radio Vatican on Friday, Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin said the bloodshed and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela could be solved by elections. People must be given the chance to vote on their "present and future," he said. "The current situation is alarming, and there's a risk that it will only get worse."Last month, Pope Francis also proposed that the Vatican mediate in the crisis, but stressed that "very clear conditions" would be necessary. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cpEt