Damascus governor Beshr Assaban said the last of the rebels, their families and other civilians left the besieged Barzeh district of Damascus on Monday.The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a Britain-based monitoring group, said the last buses began to leave Barzeh in the afternoon as part of a "reconcilliation" agreement between the Syrian govermnent and rebel groups.Most evacuees traveled to northwestern Idlib province, which remains a rebel stronghold and borders Turkey, observers said.Fighters leaveAmong the roughly 1,000 who quit were 455 fighters, who have been holed up in the neighborhood as violence intensified in the past few months.Read more: On the frontline - Citizen journalism in SyriaBarzeh was a once-bustling area that sheltered displaced people from other parts of Syria during the 6-year civil war. But it became a virtual ghost town as residents fled to avoid the recent flare-up in fighting.The evacuation deals in several, rebel-held areas have been negotiated as a way of reducing bloodshed. More than 5,000 rebels and civilians have left Barzeh under the agreement with the Syrian regime. Thousands more have left the adjacent districts of Qaboun and Tishreen.Assad takes controlThe three districts will now come under the sway of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's government, giving him almost complete control over the capital for the first time since 2013.Read more: Syrians struggle to reclaim stolen homesThe evacuation deals follow a pattern of similar agreements in towns and villages around Damascus, as well as in Syria's third largest city Homs.Last week, around 3,000 rebels and their families left the al-Waer district in Homs under a similar deal which has allowed as many as 20,000 people to move to a safer area.Rebels hold part of the heavily damaged Jobar district in the east, and in the south, the Tadamun and Hajar al-Aswad neighbourhoods as well as the Palestinian refugee camp of Yarmuk are now mostly controlled by jihadists.The United Nations has criticized the evacuations as amounting to forcible displacement.The besieged rebel-held city of Douma in Syria is located in the east, around 10 kilometers (6 miles) outside the capital Damascus. Over the last six years, countless civilian neighborhoods have been completely or partially destroyed by Russian and Syrian-led airstrikes. Children have become used to living in these bombed-out areas and have turned the rubble into a playground.Most schools and other public institutions were moved underground because of the bombing and the airstrikes on the city. Education is crucial for this war generation as the country's future hinges on them.Most of the time, Douma is being hit by regime and Russian airstrikes. In this image, a man was checking the damage to his house while the warplanes were still flying overhead. The bread baking machines have ground to a halt due to a lack of flour and fuel to keep them running. Making bread by hand is an old tradition in Syria and some Douma residents have opened up shops to bake and sell bread. One piece of bread costs 75 Syrian Pounds (30 euro cents).Abeer* lost her right leg in a bomb explosion in front of near her home while she was with her cousin Hassan* who was killed by the same bomb. Abeer is just one of thousands of injured children. Despite her loss, she's determined to live like anyone else, playing with friends and going outside. *Names have been changed.At night Douma is plunged into darkness. There has been little to no electricity since the siege began. Locals ration the use of their generators for their shops and homes.Ironing clothes has not exactly been a priority for people in Douma but whenever possible and with the help of an old iron heated over a coal fire, mundane tasks help to regain a sense of normality. Author: Firas Abdullah (Douma) mm/jm (AFP, Reuters)