The 70th annual Cannes Film Festival has come to a close, with Sweden's Ruben Ostlund winning the 2017 Palme d'Or for best film with "The Square."A satire about the art world, "The Square" tells the story of a successful art curator who second-guesses himself and his motivation to be part of the bourgeois art industry - after losing his cellphone. A total of 19 films were in the running for the top award of international film.It was a surprise win for the film which was awarded by the nine-member jury led by Spanish director Pedro Almodovar and including Hollywood stars Jessica Chastain and Will Smith. "Oh my God, oh my God!" Ostlund shouted from the stage.Ruben Ostlund was taken by surprise when his film was announced the winner of the Palme d'OrMeanwhile 40-year-old German actress Diane Kruger was named best actress for her performance in Fatih Akin's "In the Fade." The film deals with the real-life series of racially motivated far-right terror attacks in Germany during the 2000s by the so-called NSU group (National Socialist Underground)."I cannot accept this award without thinking of everyone who has been touched by an act of terrorism... you have not been forgotten," said Kruger as she accepted the award.Kruger is best known from Hollywood blockbusters such as "Troy" and "Inglourious Basterds" as well as for having had a previous career as a catwalk model.Diane Kruger said that her performance in "In the Fade" had changed her lifeAmerican movie star Joaquin Phoenix clinched the award for best actor for his role in Lynne Ramsay's thriller "You Were Never Really Here," which also starred Nicole Kidman who was awarded a special prize by the Cannes jury. Phoenix said the prize was "totally unexpected."Strong showing for French filmThe Palme d'Or is considered to be the most prestigious award in the film industry. A total of 19 directors are competing this year for the award for best film. But like the rest of the world, Cannes is in shock. (24.05.2017) Nicole Kidman's red carpet stroll won't be the only highlight in Cannes. Nineteen films are competing for the world's most prestigious film award, the Golden Palm, including a German movie and indie films from the US. (16.05.2017) It's been a quarter of a century since one of the most recognized questions in popular culture hit television: "Who killed Laura Palmer?" Get ready for the much-awaited revival David Lynch's eccentric TV format. (19.05.2017) Where will you see the best films? Which festival draws the biggest stars. Cannes, Venice and Berlin - KINO on how the big three differ and the prizes at stake. (22.05.2017) The evening held a number of surprises, as there were no obvious frontrunners in the days leading up to the award ceremony. France took home two awards:The French AIDS drama "120 Beats Per Minute" won the Grand Prize from the jury. The award recognizes a strong film that missed out on achieving the Palme d'Or.The Golden Camera (Camera d'Or) award, which is given to first-time directors competing at the festival, also went to France and Leonor Serraille for her movie "Young Woman." A total of 26 films were vying for the coveted prize this year.Sofia Coppola, the daughter of veteran film director Francis Ford Coppola, was recognized with the best director prize for "The Beguiled," a remake of Don Siegel's 1971 drama about the American Civil War.The Cannes Film Festival jury meanwhile awarded two - not one - screenplay awards this year - for Yorgos Lanthimos' "The Killing of a Sacred Deer" and Lynne Ramsay who wrote and directed "You Were Never Really Here."ss/jm (AFP, Reuters)Volker Schl ndorff garnered Germany's first Palme d'Or with the film version of the book "The Tin Drum" in 1979. Wim Wenders followed up in 1984 with "Paris, Texas," taking the audience and jury by storm. It also brought global recognition to the "New German Film" genre. Nastassja Kinski (shown here) played, alongside Harry Dean Stanton, the role of her career.Festival audiences loved the film "Blue is the Warmest Color" four years ago. French director Abdellatif Kechiche told the love story between two young women in such an intense and expressive way that the jury awarded the Palme d'Or not only to the director, but also to the two fantastic actresses, L a Seydoux und Ad le Exarchopoulos.The 2009 Cannes jury quickly agreed that "The White Ribbon" was the most deserving film that year. Munich-born Austrian director Michael Haneke received the Palm d'Or for a film that managed to portray the stifling atmosphere of a small northern German town just before the outbreak of World War I. In 2012, Haneke received his second Golden Palm for his drama "Amour."Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction" from 1994 became a cult classic. The complex story, told playfully and ironically, took American cinema to a whole new level. The film would go on to have a significant influence on directors and screenplay writers. Just a year earlier, the Golden Palm winner had also caused a sensation - but the kind that was long overdue. Director Jane Campion of New Zealand received the top accolade for her melancholy emigration drama about a pianist who couldn't speak. Campion became the first woman to claim the prestigious award. In 1990, the Palm d'Or winner stirred up controversy. David Lynch's wild and somewhat violent road movie divided the jury - until jury president Bernardo Bertolucci of Italy got his way. The genre-bending "Wild at Heart" prepared audiences for films from the likes of Quentin Tarantino. Cannes doesn't only present American and Western European films. In 1982, "Yol" became the first Turkish movie to win the Palm d'Or. Filmmaker erif G ren had to fill in on the project for director and screenplay writer Y lmaz G ney, who had to flee Turkey in 1981 for political reasons. G ney died of stomach cancer in 1984.The 1979 competition proved memorable because the jury, presided over by French writer Fran oise Sagan, couldn't agree on a winner - so they chose two. Along with Francis Ford Coppola's Vietnam War film "Apocalypse Now," Volker Schl ndorff also took home a trophy for "The Tin Drum," based on the book by G nter Grass.Golden Palm winners often reflect the aesthetic developments in the world of cinema. In 1970, the jury demonstrated intuition by selecting the anti-war black comedy "MASH." Six years later, Martin Scorsese's "Taxi Driver," starring Jodie Foster and Robert De Niro, won the Palm d'Or. Both represented New Hollywood, which saw directors take more control over movie-making than production studios.Spanish-Mexico director Luis Bu uel received the Palm d'Or in 1961 for "Viridiana." Just three days after he accepted the award in Cannes, the film was banned in Spain because the Franco regime wasn't pleased with the director's anticlerical, anti-capitalistic approach. Today, "Viridiana" is considered a masterpiece of surrealist cinema. Author: Jochen K rten (kbm, als)