Malaysian authorities have seized more than 2 million dollars (1.82 million euros) worth of pangolin scales at one of the country's main airports in its&nbsp;largest-ever such haul, officials said Monday.Customs officers found more than 700 kilograms (1,570 pounds) of the scales in two separate seizures at Kuala Lumpur airport.On May 2, officials found eight sacks of the scales weighing 408 kilograms at an airport warehouse. They are believed to have come from Accra, Ghana, via Dubai.Two days later, 10 sacks weighing in at 304 kilograms were seized. They are thought to have made their way&nbsp;on a flight from Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of Congo to Nairobi, Kenya, and then via Dubai.The scales of the pangolin - which is said to be the most widely-trafficked mammal in the world - are in high demand for use in traditional Chinese medicine. The scales are made of keratin, the same material in&nbsp;human finger nails. Their meat is also considered a delicacy in China and other Asian countries.So high is the demand for the scales and meat that more than a million pangolins are estimated to have been trafficked over the past decade. Because pangolins are secretive and solitary animals, little information is available on pangolin populations. But all eight species are on the IUCN Red List, under the conservation status vulnerable to critically endangered.The animals also got a&nbsp;protection boost last year when Asian pangolins were upgraded to appendix 1 of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, which bans international&nbsp;trade in the species.Pangolin scales seized in 2016 by the authorities in Hong Kong - they were detected by dogs deployed at customs points Conservation effortsAsian pangolins live in the jungles of Indonesia, and parts of Malaysia and southern Thailand. But in recent years, as trafficking in the Asian species has become more difficult, poachers have targeted the African pangolin.Conservation of the pangolin in the wild is the animal's only hope, conservationists say. Pangolins rarely survive in captivity, and only six zoos worldwide successfully keep them.Organizations&nbsp;such as the African Wildlife Foundation&nbsp;support&nbsp;communities leaving near pangolins to shift to sustainable agriculture and away from hunting the animals for food. The foundation is also trying to stem the trafficking of pangolin scales and other animal parts from airports and seaports in Africa with its Canines for Conservation program.Dogs trained by the foundation working&nbsp;at airports in East Africa have detected pangolin scales that passengers were attempting to smuggle to Asia, says the organization. Recently one canine unit detected 500 kilos of scales destined for Thailand via Sierra Leone.&nbsp;WWF and WildAid are also involved in campaigns to raise awareness about pangolins and debunk myths about the medicinal or magical properties&nbsp;of the animal's scales.&nbsp;jc/sad (AFP)Demand for rhinoceros horn, mainly across Asia, is driving the species toward extinction. Despite international trade in rhino horn having been banned under CITES since 1977, only around 25,600 rhinos from all five species remain in the wild. In a controversial move, the king of Swaziland will propose to legalize international rhino horn trade at the wildlife conference in Johannesburg.Despite African elephant populations having experienced a catastrophic one-third decline from 2007 to 2015 due mainly to ivory trade, Zimbabwe and Namibia are proposing to legalize their ivory markets - in efforts to reduce demand. Since around 27,000 elephants are estimated to be killed by poachers each year, ivory trade will surely a high-profile discussion at CITES CoP17.The African lion is not yet considered a threatened species under CITES - however, some groups such as Humane Society International have proposed the species should get increased protection, as there may be as few as 20,000 wild lions left in Africa. This proposal is currently being opposed by numerous countries, including the European Union.Pangolins have the sad honor of being world's most trafficked wild mammal. Their scales are used in traditional medicine, mainly in China, and are a treasure for poachers. As all eight species of pangolins could be threatened with extinction, some CITES CoP17 participants support the transfer of all species from Appendix II to Appendix I, further restricting trade in the animal.Although colorful shells bring a fresh maritime feel to your home, this simple act might be contributing to the extinction of unusual marine invertebrates such as the chambered nautilus. These unique marine animals also have their place among the 62 proposals to be presented at CITES CoP17 - wildlife experts are seeking more protection for the huge snails.This astonishing bird has a helmet-like structure on its head that accounts for some 11 percent of its 3-kilogram (6.6-pound) weight. While the bird uses its beak in head-to-head combat with other males, humans use it as carving material. Asia's largest hornbill is already listed on Appendix I, but Indonesia is requesting greater protection of the species and further international cooperation.Plants are often given less attention when discussing wildlife trade - however, CoP17 is also tackling problems related to legal and illegal logging around the world, which threatens numerous tree species. For instance, commercial demand across Asia for rosewood - a very valuable timber - has fueled a cross-border criminal network - making this endangered species a topic at the CITES conference. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz