Sunday's launch was of a "newly-developed mid/long-range strategic ballistic rocket, Hwasong-12," North Korean news agency KCNA reported on Monday.The news agency added that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un "personally oversaw" the missile test.The missile,&nbsp;tested early Sunday, landed in the sea off the coast of Russia.It was launched at a high angle&nbsp;and reached an altitude of 2,111.5 kilometers (1,312 miles) and traveled 787 kilometers, reaching the "precise location intended," according to KCNA.Missile experts said the high trajectory means the missile could travel at least 4,000 kilometers at a standard trajectory, easily within striking distance of neighboring South Korea and Japan, but not mainland US.Rising tensionsNorth Korea is believed to be capable of developing an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) that can carry a nuclear warhead to mainland US. The recent missile tests in North Korea have worried nearby South Korea and Japan, as well as ally US. The US has warned that it may resort to military action to end North Korea's nuclear program, and North Korea has responded with threats of its own. The militaries of Japan and South Korean have increased their presence on the Korean peninsula. &nbsp; Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cCLB38 North, a US-based group that monitors North Korea, said following Sunday's missile test that "it appears to have not only demonstrated an intermediate-range ballistic missile (IRBM) that might enable them to reliably strike the US base at Guam, but more importantly, may represent a substantial advance to developing an intercontinental ballistic missile."The UN Security Council is scheduled to meet on Tuesday to discuss Sunday's missile launch. Nikki Haley, the US ambassador to the UN,&nbsp;has called the launch a message to South Korea after the inauguration of its new president, Moon Jae-in, on Wednesday. Moon has promised to try to work together with its secluded neighbor.&nbsp;&nbsp;"You first have to get into Kim Jong Un's head -&nbsp;which is, he's in a state of paranoia, he's incredibly concerned about anything and everything around him," Haley told American TV broadcaster ABC on Sunday.North Korea is under multiple sets of UN and US sanctions over its nuclear and missile programs.South Korea announced Monday it would send special envoys to five countries to establish stronger ties. The envoys will travel to the US, China, Japan, Russia and Germany to meet with high-ranking officials to thoroughly explain South Korea's plans and determine how to form bilateral relations, the presidential Blue House said.South Korean Army soldiers rappel down during a South Korea-U.S. joint military live-fire drill at Seungjin Fire Training Field in Pocheon, South Korea, near the border with North Korea. In Pocheon, 65 kilometers northeast of Seoul, South Korea s self-propelled guns, as well as multiple rocket launchers, fired off dozens of volleys toward mock targets. South Korean K1A2 tanks fire live rounds at a training field near the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas. Some 100 artillery pieces, 90 armoured vehicles and 50 aircraft, as well as 2,000 South Korean and US troops, the defence ministry said.The US has begun deploying parts of the controversial Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) missile system at its site in South Korea. THAAD is designed to intercept and destroy short and medium-range ballistic missiles during their final phase of flight. The US and South Korea are deploying the missile system in response to the ongoing development of North Korea's ballistic missile program.On the other side of the border in North Korea, leader Kim Jong-Un oversaw the country's largest-ever firing drill, which saw more than 300 large-calibre self-propelled guns firing simultaneously and torpedo attacks by submarines, state-run KCNA agency said. The drill marked the 85th anniversary of the founding of the North Korea's armed forces, and heightened international worries that it may be preparing another nuclear test. Author: Nadine Berghausen kbd/cmk (AFP, Reuters)