Munich police have arrested the alleged leaders of a crime operation responsible for up to a fifth of burglaries in Germany, they announced on Monday.According to police figures, over 160,000 burglaries were reported in Germany in 2015 - an increase of nearly 10 percent from 2014. (30.03.2016) In a bid to reduce Germany's rising burglary rate, the country's interior minister has called for more CCTV cameras and special surveillance officers. More than 160,000 burglaries were recorded last year. (16.06.2016) A group of eight men has gone on trial in the western German city of Cologne. They allegedly burgled churches and schools over a period of four years to finance Islamist fighters in Syria. (20.10.2015) An 18-year-old alleged burglar was shot dead by a German man on his property, in what the man says was self-defense. Unlike the US, such cases are extremely rare in Germany, which has strict gun control laws. (11.06.2015) An investigation into the pan-European crime gang first started in January 2016 when undercover police officers watched three young women commit a break-in. According to police, the women were clear professionals who acted in a fast and skillful manner with the right tools.Investigators discovered that the young women, who claimed they were teenagers, were members of a massive criminal family group originating in Croatia.Police have alleged the clan has some 500 members interwoven by kinship or marriage, and that the family group used young girls to commit burglaries across Europe. Girls traded between familiesThe skilled young burglars, prized for their discretion and lower chance of being jailed, were traded between the various families, Reinhold Bergmann, the commissioner for organized burglary crime, said in a statement."They have no choice but to participate," Bergmann told the German newspaper S ddeutsche Zeitung.Police went on to arrest 20 other young women in Munich, but these were just more "working bees."Investigations led to further arrests across Germany, including two alleged "middle managers" in Gelsenkirchen, near Essen in western Germany.'Multi-legged kraken'Police arrested two family leaders in Croatia, who were accused of leading one branch of the operation. Authorities have described the family in Zagreb as just one arm of "multi-legged kraken" of crime families.There were likely 20 to 30 more "kraken arms" in countries such as Belgium, Spain, France and Italy, Bergmann told German news weekly Focus.Two more family members are still on the run.Investigators in Croatia reportedly found marble-tiled villas, which were likely financed by the burglaries.Police said they had recovered some watches and some rings that would be returned to their owners. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2aul9