At the end of the final show on Sunday night, ringmaster Johnathan Lee Iverson led the performers, crew and audience in an emotional rendition of "Auld Lang Syne."Parent company, Feld Entertainment, announced in January it would close the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, citing declining attendance and high operating costs.Lions and tigers took part in the final performanceCEO Kenneth Feld called the final show "a celebration," adding that more than 250 million people had seen Ringling's performances.Feld's father and uncle bought the circus in 1967, sold it to Mattel in 1971 before buying it back again 11 years later."It's incredibly heartwarming to see all of you that have come out for the final performance," Feld said at the sold-out show near New York City, which was live streamed on the company website."We all have to embrace change," he said. "But there is a love for the circus that will never die."Animal protestsThousands of people protested in Valencia last weekend against what they see as government efforts to stop an important tradition in Spain: bullfighting. For centuries, crowds have watched matadors baiting bulls. But opponents say it is cruel and stressful for the animals. Pro-bullfighting groups are calling for the sport to be added to the Unesco list of intangible cultural heritage.Elephants, and lions - these animals are used in circuses worldwide. They are subjugated into performing demanding tricks. According to the animal protection organization Peta, the animals are often removed from their mothers when they are far too young. After much public pressure, the Ringling Brothers Circus in the US will stop using elephants. But the practice will continue in other shows.It's been more than 10 years since fox hunting was banned in the UK. And yet, the controversial activity continues in a different form. Trail hunting has replaced the traditional hunt - but satisfies neither hunters nor opponents. Pro-hunting lobbyists are campaigning to get the law repealed, while animal rights activists argue trail hunts allow illegal hunting with dogs to continue to take place.A trip to the zoo may sound like fun - but for some animals, the bars and fences mean misery. Despite rules put in place by the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums to ensure welfare of the animals, the organization has been accused of overlooking cruelty in Thailand, Kazakhstan and Sri Lanka.No animals were harmed in the making of this picture gallery - but can the same be said about Hollywood films? Peta says that like in circuses, many creatures are removed from their mothers when they are too young, and subjected to abuse. But there are protective measures in place - the American Humane Association works with the film and television industry to insure the safety of animal actors.The gates are up, and they're off - greyhounds chasing down a mechanical rabbit. That's what they were born to do, right? Running is actually just a small part of the dogs' lives. The League Against Cruel Sports estimates for 95 percent of the time, race dogs are shut in kennels. "Cruelty, drug abuse, injury, neglect and killing" - just a day in the life for these dogs, according to the league.One animal pitted against another - dog fighting is entertainment based on suffering. And while it's illegal in many countries, dog fighting continues to take place in back alleys and behind closed doors, with people gambling on the outcome. The dogs are commonly kept on chains, and are bred to be aggressive. If you see this "sport" taking place, best report it.The inclusion of circus acts using elephants, lions, tigers, pigs and other animals had brought complaints from animal rights activists over the years. They said that forcing the animals to perform and transporting them around the country amounted to abuse.Elephants were removed from the shows last year. About 11 elephants were sent to spend their remaining days at Ringling's Center for Elephant Conservation in central Florida.After the elephants left, the owner said, the decline in attendance was "greater than could have been anticipated."Feld has been working to relocate the animals. Some owned by the company are expected to be moved to zoos and conservation centers in the US. "Our audiences today loved seeing horses, dogs and two very talented 700-pound (317 kilogram) pigs," Feld spokesman Stephen Payne said Sunday.There were two final touring circuses. One was a traditional three-ring circus which ended its run in Providence, Rhode Island earlier in May.Asia, a 47-year-old elephant, worked with the circus nearly her entire lifeThe other "Out of This World" show gave its final performance in Uniondale, New York on Sunday night. Set in futuristic outer space, it included performances with big cats, motorcycles, clowns, ice skaters, aerialists and basketball players. An act called "The Fuzzies" featured dogs, pigs, llamas and goats.Feld Entertainment will continue with other productions such as Frozen on Ice, Marvel Live, Supercross, Monster Trucks and Disney on Ice. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1JHp3jm/cmk (AP, Reuters)