Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro on Monday announced plans for a new popular assembly as thousands gathered in the streets of the capital, Caracas, to oppose his regime.Maduro triggered an article of the constitution that effectively allows for the reformation of public offices in a move reminiscent of his predecessor, Hugo Chavez, and his&nbsp;constitutional reforms in 1999."I convoke the original constituent power to achieve the peace needed by the republic, defeat the fascist coup&nbsp;and let the sovereign people impose peace, harmony and true national dialogue," Maduro told supporters at a May Day gathering.Protesters have urged authorities to disobey the government, chanting: 'Police don't support dictatorship'The embattled president said the decree was necessary to disrupt a "fascist coup" he accuses Washington of orchestrating.The new entity - to be tasked with writing a new constitution - will be a "citizen's constituent body, not from political parties - a people's constituent body," Maduro said.Venezuela&nbsp;has been hit with near-daily protests after the Supreme Court earlier this year attempted to strip the opposition-held Congress of legislative authority.'Constitutional fraud'Critics lashed out at the president's latest move, calling it&nbsp;part of a plan to retain power amid mass protests calling for the increasingly-dictatorial leader to step down from office and make way for fresh elections."Faced with the dictator's announcement of the constitutional fraud of the constituent assembly, people should go to the street and disobey such craziness," said opposition leader Henrique Capriles in a tweet.The protests have brought together thousands of Venezuelans from all parts of society,&nbsp;some of them angered by the president's actions and others frustrated by crippling shortages of food, medicine and other basic goods.Nearly 30 people have been killed and more than 400 others injured during the violent protests.Since assuming the presidency&nbsp;in 2013, Maduro has struggled to lift the OPEC nation out of an acute financial crisis, in part caused by the collapse of oil prices.Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands have taken to the streets in the weeks since to call for new elections. They show no signs of stopping.As of March, Venezuela's inflation rate surpassed 220 percent, according to the Johns Hopkins Institute for Applied Economics. The country's largest bill - the 100 bolivar note - was worth just $0.04 at the end of last year. Shopping trips now require stacks, or even bags, of cash to buy the bare necessities.An estimated 80 percent of food items and other basics were in short supply by last year. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally can enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the government of economic mismanagement.In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen otherwise only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever.Electricity blackouts and fuel shortages have also driven Venezuelans to desperation. Despite Venezuela's possession of the world's largest oil reserves, drivers face long lines at the gas pump. A 50-percent collapse in oil prices in 2014 devastated the oil-dependent economy. In 2013, revenues were $80 billion. That figure dropped to $20 billion by 2016, according to IMF figures.Lower poverty rates, better education and health, and economic growth: These are all part of the legacy of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, who died in 2013. Equally part of the socialist's legacy was mismanagement. Not only did he fail to keep the state oil company up to date under increased government control, but his government also overspent despite a drop in oil production after 2006.Chavez's hand-picked successor, Nicolas Maduro, has been in office for four years and has two more to go. The opposition center-right coalition, which has controlled the National Assembly since 2015, has accused him of "abandoning his post" by failing to stem the economic devastation. It has also denounced him for rights abuses.The most recent example of Maduro's rights abuses was to silence opposition leader, Henrique Capriles, pictured above. In early April, Capriles was banned from seeking public office for 15 years due to "administrative irregularities" in his role as a governor. Capriles had been at the forefront of demands for a referendum on Maduro. The ban further inflamed tensions with protesters.Aside from protests, the opposition collected 2 million signatures for a referendum last year, roughly 10 times the number required. And in a move against the Supreme Court - and in lieu of impeachment hearings - it also held a symbolic trial for Maduro. Numerous attempts to stymie its attempts to pressure the government have only emboldened these lawmakers.Last September saw some 1 million Venezuelans march on Caracas. The opposition hopes April 19 protests - "the mother of all protests" to coincide with Maduro's fourth annivesary - will be even bigger. Meanwhile, the international community looks on with concern. The Organization for American States is mulling a suspension for Venezuela unless it calls elections to emerge from "dictatorship." Author: Kathleen Schuster ls/cmk (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa)