Britain's MI5 intelligence service formally launched an internal investigation on Monday to review whether it should have paid more attention to warnings about the behavior of Salman Abedi, the suicide bomber who killed 22 people last week in an attack on Ariana Grande's Manchester concert."There is a lot of information coming out at the moment about what happened, how this occurred, what people might or might not have known," Home Secretary Amber Rudd told media on Monday. "It is right that MI5 take a look to find out what the facts are. We shouldn't rush to make any conclusions at this stage."There are reports that prior to the May 22 bombing, two people who knew Abedi made separate calls to a police hotline to warn the authorities against Abedi's extremist views.Abedi was known to MI5 but wasn't one of the people under active investigationThe British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) also said that as a teenager, Abedi had been involved in the armed insurgency against former Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi during his school holidays. Gadhafi was killed by Libyan rebels in October 2011.A "post incident investigation" will examine how the Manchester bomber was overlooked. A separate report was being prepared for ministers and those who oversee MI5's work, according to the BBC."This is a review that would seek to answer whether there are lessons to be learned from how the security service handled the intelligence on Abedi," the Reuters news agency cited a source as saying.Fresh arrestA 23-year-old man was arrested in Shoreham-by-Sea, some 400 kilometers (250 miles) from Manchester, "on suspicion on offences contrary to the terrorism act," Greater Manchester Police said on Twitter Monday morning.Police also raided a building in a southern Manchester suburb and another in the city of Chester in connection with last week's attack.Read more: In Manchester, a show of determination, anger, fear and loveBritish authorities believe Abedi was part of a network, with the interior minister, Amber Rudd, saying Sunday there were "potentially" still members of the cell at large.The Monday arrest has brought the total number of people arrested in connection with the Manchester bombing to 16. Two were released by police without charge, while 14 remain in custody.Threat level down a notchOn Saturday, Prime Minister Theresa May said developments in the investigation prompted intelligence experts to lower the threat level in the country from "critical" - the highest available - to "severe," claiming that a critical part of the network had been dismantled.Still, security remains high at large-scale public events, including the Great Manchester Run, where some 40,000 runners took to the city streets.Read more: Manchester's music scene after the terror attackMedia reports say that people who knew Abedi had raised concerns about him and his views as far back as 2012."The intelligence services are still collecting information about him, but I wouldn't rush to conclusions, as you seem to be, that they have somehow missed something," Home Secretary Rudd said.When asked how many potential militants the government was concerned about, Rudd said Britain's security services were tracking 500 different potential plots, involving 3,000 people as a "top list," with a further 20,000 beneath that.The city with 2.6 million inhabitants is, next to Birmingham, the economic and cultural center of England's North West. Birmingham and Manchester have had a long rivalry over which of the two is Britain's second-biggest city. One thing Manchester definitely has is the biggest university campus in Great Britain. With some 100,000 students it has one the world's biggest student populations.The Alan Turing memorial commemorates the computer pioneer who taught at the university here from 1948. He rose to fame during World War II for helping to break the German Enigma code, which in turn greatly influenced the course of the war. In Manchester, he developed software for the first computer and conducted research into artificial intelligence.Manchester played a pivotal role in the Industrial Revolution. During the 19th century, it developed into the center of the British textile industry and became synonymous with unbridled capitalism. The Museum of Science and Industry, located in Liverpool Road Station, the world's oldest (1830) passenger train station, is devoted to the development of science, technology and industry. In the Castlefield district the remains of a Roman fort, Mamucium or Mancunium, which gave its name to Manchester, was found and reconstructed. In the 18th century, Castlefield was in the middle of a network of canals. On the Irweil river towpath, a 1.5 km walk leading to the Salford Quays was created. An eye-catcher is Beetham Tower, at 171 meters (554 ft.) the highest skyscraper outside London.Salford Quays is a former industrial area of Greater Manchester. It came to a standstill during the 1980s as industry declined. Setting an example for other European industrial areas, it became one of the first and largest urban regeneration projects in the United Kingdom following the closure of the dockyards in 1982. Modern housing, theater and event locations were created. The Lowry is a theater and music complex on Salford Quays. It consists of two theaters, a broad promenade, small cafes and concert stages. It is named after 20th century artist L.S. Lowry (1887-1987), known for his paintings of industrial scenes in North West England. The complex is also home to the Lowry Collection, a permanent exhibition of some 400 works from all periods of his career. Manchester is a multi-cultural city. Nowhere else in Europe will you find a greater number of people from ethnic minorities living side by side. Only New York is thought to have more. Manchester University established that 153 languages are spoken in the city. Many occasions are celebrated in Manchester - be it the Hindu Holi-Festival (pictured), the Chinese New Year or the Caribbean Carnival. City-dwellers need recreational areas. Manchester has an astonishing number of parks and gardens, 135 in total. The most important of these is Heaton Park in the north of the city. With its 250 hectares it is one of Europe's biggest public parks. Hyde Park in London is only 142 hectares big and the English Garden in Munich counts 417 hectares.Manchester has produced many famous bands, either home-grown or founded here, among them Oasis and Take That. Due to its vibrant music and club scene the city is also affectionately known as "Madchester." Music is everywhere. Festivals take place all summer long, this year numbering 30. The Parklife Festival with 70,000 visitors is one of the biggest.Two local football clubs, Manchester City and Manchester United, play in the Premier League. The National Football Museum is dedicated to all who have played a part in English football history, like David Beckam. In the "Hall of Fame" you can see the best national players while screens show the greatest moments in the national sport."You'll never walk alone" from the musical Carousel, tells people not to give up hope. Rumor has it that Manchester United fans sang the song at Old Trafford back in the 1950s, before great rivals Liverpool made it world famous. No other fan song better epitomizes solidarity and team spirit - something Manchester will have great need of now.shs/msh (AFP, Reuters)