Relative calm prevailed Saturday in some parts of Syria after a deal signed by President Bashar al-Assad's backers -&nbsp;Russia and Iran -&nbsp;and rebel supporter -&nbsp;Turkey -&nbsp;to create four "de-escalation zones" came into effect at midnight on Friday.The aim of the agreement is to reduce violence amid&nbsp;the ongoing six-year&nbsp;war in the Middle Eastern country that has left more than 400,000 people dead and millions displaced.The United States was not party to the deal, whereas Syrian rebels rejected the agreement saying it lacked legitimacy. The opposition was also vocally against the participation of Iran, which it accused of fueling sectarian violence in the conflict.Conflicting reportsAccording to the AFP news agency, only sporadic skirmishes and shelling occurred on Saturday in parts of the country that are included in so-called "safe zones."But the UK-based Syrian Observatory for&nbsp;Human Rights said Assad's forces continued to target rebel positions in the opposition-held town of al-Latamana in central Syria.Government forces also shelled opposition-controlled neighborhoods near the capital Damascus.But Observatory chief, Rami Abdel Rahman, said that overall "violence was sharply reduced in the areas covered by the deal."A spokesman for the Pentagon said Friday the "safe zone" plan wouldn't impact the US fight against the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) terrorist group, saying it would continue its air campaign against the militants."The coalition will continue to target [IS] wherever they operate to ensure they have no sanctuary," said Pentagon spokesman Marine Maj. Adrian J.T. Rankine-Galloway.Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.In April the US launched a missile strike against a Syrian air-base in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on civilians. The attacked marked a sharp turn-around in US Syrian policy, with President Donald Trump long advocating against direct action against the Syrian regime.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has aided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher The United States participates in separate UN-backed peace talks from those in Kazakhstan that have deadlocked despite several rounds of negotiations. A new round of talks is expected later this month.Hoping for peaceThe four so-called "safe zones" are spread across Syria. The first and biggest is in the north of the country, which includes Idlib province and three districts bordering it. The second zone is in the central Homs province; the third covers the region to the east of Damascus; and the fourth in the south. All these areas are largely controlled by opposition groups.People in "safe zones" are hoping the deal would finally bring peace to their country."We are tired. We used to live under one tyrant, now we live under many. The 'safe zones' are a great idea. I hope they work," said a Syrian citizen.The Syrian government says it supports the de-escalation plan, but it has also made clear that it will continue to fight what it deems to be a terrorist group. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cKO6shs/se&nbsp;(AFP, AP, dpa)