Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel told the German mass-market daily "Bild"&nbsp;on Friday he does not regret a controversial&nbsp;meeting with human rights groups in Israel and, given the chance, would do it again."Democrats should also be able to meet with organizations that are critical of the government," Gabriel, who belongs to&nbsp;Germany's Social Democratic Party, said. "There should be no ultimatums among Democrats."Read: Netanyahu accuses German Foreign Minister Gabriel of 'tactlessness'During his visit to Israel last week, Gabriel sat down with representatives from Breaking the Silence and B'Tselem, both organizations that have been deeply critical of settlements and the Israeli military's treatment of Palestinians in the occupied West Bank. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cOCASnubbed by NetanyahuIsraeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who had warned Gabriel against meeting with what he described as "radical fringe groups,"&nbsp;subsequently canceled scheduled talks, calling the minister's behavior "tactless."Read more: Opinion: Bibi's theatricsB'Tselem is a prominent NGO that records human rights abuses and Jewish settlement building in Palestinian territories.&nbsp;Breaking the Silence&nbsp;documents&nbsp;testimony from ex-Israeli soldiers about abuses committed against Palestinians.Gabriel told "Bild"&nbsp;that Netanyahu wanted to force him to "cancel a meeting with respectable Israeli citizens only because they are critical of his policies relating to Palestinians."&nbsp; He added that these policies were also "highly controversial in Israel, so it was obvious to me that I also had to hear from critics."&nbsp;Upcoming Steinmeier visitGabriel's repeated defense of his actions may be problematic for German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who is due to arrive&nbsp;in Israel on Saturday. Referring to that visit, Gabriel said Steinmeier's role was different to his own, and expressed full confidence the president will be able to&nbsp;"find the right words to calm the situation."Relations between Germany and Israel have been strained recently as Netanyahu's government moves forward with a crackdown on civil society groups and settlement building in the West Bank and East Jerusalem.Germany has criticized Israel for hindering a two-state solution.United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on 22 November 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders.This picture, taken on March 26 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the peace treaty in Washington. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. This war eventually led to the peace talks which lasted 12 days and resulted in two agreements.The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions, which involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians, who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time, achieved little, although it did create the framework for later talks.Negotiations, which took place in Norway, between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) resulted in the first deal between the two sides, the Oslo Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period.US President, Bill Clinton, invited Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, and PLO Chairman, Yasser Arafat, to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees, and Jerusalem. Despite more detailed negotiations than ever before, no agreement was reached. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising.The Camp David negotiations were followed by meetings in Washington, then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt. They too were without results. Later, the Arab Peace Initiative was proposed in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to the lines of June 1967, so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries agreed to recognize Israel.The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. In June 2003, Prime Minister Sharon and his Palestinian counterpart Mahmoud Abbas, accepted the road map, with the Security Council also approving it in November. The timetable called for the final agreement to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented.In 2007, US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to re-launch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Olmert, and Palestinian Authority s President, Mahmoud Abbas, took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008.In 2010, special US Envoy George Mitchell s efforts led to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreeing to and implementing a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to re-launch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock.A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence, and eventually led to the launch of the Israeli military operation, Protective Edge, which ended with a ceasefire on 26 August 2014.Envoys from over 70 countries have gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu has slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives are attending the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said at the opening of the event. Author: Aasim Saleem nm/rt (AFP, dpa)