Four civilians were killed in eastern Ukraine, local authorities said Saturday ahead of the Eurovision grand final in capital, Kyiv.Ukrainian authorities blamed pro-Russia&nbsp;separatists for an artillery attack on the government-held industrial town of Avdiyivka. Shelling has continued in eastern Ukraine despite a ceasefire agreement signed in February 2015 in Minsk."A shell hit the courtyard of a private house. Three women and one man perished," Pavlo Zhebrivsky, head of the Ukraine-controlled Donetsk regional administration,&nbsp;said on Facebook, adding that another man with serious wounds had been&nbsp;taken to hospital.Avdiyivka is a heavily-shelled flashpoint suburb of the separatists' de facto capital city of Donetsk.The Ukrainian military said rebels had used artillery banned under the terms of the Minsk peace deal in the attack.Rebel forces did not respond to the accusations, but a news agency linked to the separatists said two civilians on its side of the front line were wounded on Saturday.Poroshenko&nbsp;cancels&nbsp;appearance at&nbsp;ESC finalThe attack happened just hours before the Eurovision Song Contest finale kicked off about 600 kilometers (370 miles) away in Kyiv, with 20,000 foreign tourists expected to descend on the city.The attack hit near the industrial town of AvdiyivkaUkrainian President Petro Poroshenko cancelled his appearance at the event following the attack.&nbsp;Poroshenko said he was planning "to be at the contest final with [my wife]&nbsp;Marina and invited our fighters and people with disabilities to support Ukraine.""However due to the shelling of Avdiivka and the death of peaceful civilians, I took a decision to cancel my presence at the Eurovision final," he wrote on Facebook.Police officers patrolled the event with semi-automatic machine guns and camouflaged police vans on the streets.Russia was excluded from this year's Eurovision following a travel ban on their contestant, after she toured in annexed Crimea. Russia is normally a heavy hitter in the competition: it is tied with Sweden for the most top-five finishes this century.In response, Russia's state-owned Channel 1 television refused to broadcast the contest, replacing Saturday's final with a screening of the film "Alien."The latest attack brings the death toll for Ukrainian soldiers and civilians to 14 this month. More than 10,000 people have died in the three-year Russia-backed rebellion.aw/cmk (Reuters, AFP)This year's contest, held in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, marks the first time that a host state has banned another country's entrant. Ukrainian security services denied entry to 27-year-old, wheelchair-bound Yulia Samoylova of Russia after reports surfaced that she toured Crimea after Russia annexed it in 2014. In response, Russia's state-owned broadcaster Channel One will not air the contest.Russia and Ukraine had their share of Eurovision drama in 2016 when Ukrainian entrant Jamala beat Russia's Sergey Lazarev. The song "1944" about Stalin s deportation of Crimean Tatars during the World War Two was initially deemed controversial due to the contest's ban on explicit political messages. Jamala was victorious, however, with 534 points. Russia finished third, with Australia second.While the slogan of the 2017 Eurovision is "Celebrate Diversity," three years ago in Copenhagen, the victory of Austrian drag queen Conchita Wurst (born Tom Neuwirth) saw a backlash from numerous countries. Radical groups in Russia, Azerbaijan and Belarus all campaigned - without success - to keep the then 25-year-old from entering. In 1969, Austria took a political stance against Spain and withdrew from Eurovision. The country refused to take part in Madrid to show its opposition to the Franco regime. Spanish General Francisco Franco ruled over Spain as a military dictator for 39 years from 1936 until his death in 1975. An estimated 200,000 to 400,000 people died as a result of his human rights abuses.In 2001, Estonia became the first former-Soviet republic to win Eurovision. "We freed ourselves from the Soviet empire through song," Estonian Prime Minister Mart Laar said, following the victory in Copenhagen. "Now we will sing our way into Europe," he added, referring to ongoing talks over the country's accession into the European Union. Estonia's independence was restored in 1991.Georgia was disqualified from the Moscow 2009 contest over their disco-funk entry, "We Don't Wanna Put In" after the Geneva-based European Broadcasting Union (EBU) deemed the lyrics too political. As well as an apparent play on Russian President Vladimir Putin's name, Georgian female trio 3G, along with male vocalist Stephane sang of a "negative move" that was "killing the groove."A long-running debate in Eurovision is the apparent bloc voting by neighboring countries. Late UK presenter Terry Wogan famously stepped down from commentating Eurovision in 2008, saying it was "no longer a music contest." Some of the main perpetrators are Cyprus and Greece, Scandinavia, the Balkan states and the former Soviet bloc. Last year's change in voting aims to minimize geographical bias.Language has long been a fundamental flaw at the heart of Belgium's ongoing existential Eurovision crisis. For years, in a bid to keep the peace at home, Belgium has alternated between sending an entry to sing either in Flemish or French. Back in 2003, however, the Belgians avoided any linguistic woes with their entry "Sanomi," which was sung by the band Urban Trad in a fictional language. In 2015, allegations arose that Armenia used its entry to call for recognition of the Armenian genocide during the last days of the Ottoman Empire. The massacre of some 1.5 million Armenians remains unrecognized by Turkey and Azerbaijan. A year later, Armenian entrant Iveta Mukuchyan was reprimanded for holding a Nagorno-Karabakh flag. The de-facto independent republic is claimed by Azerbaijan.Citing "dissatisfaction with the rules," Turkey refused to participate in the 2013 contest. Following Conchita Wurst's victory, a Turkish MP from President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's AKP reported the country would no longer take part in the Eurovision Song Contest. Turkey had participated in the contest 34 times since its first appearance in 1975 and even won in 2004. Author: Kate Brady