The Afghan government on Sunday confirmed the deaths of several senior commanders from&nbsp;the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) jihadist group,&nbsp;including its leader in Afghanistan Abdul Hasib.That was followed by a separate confirmation from US forces in Afghanistan, who said that Hasib and "several other high ranking" IS leaders were killed in the&nbsp;operation on April 27 in the eastern Nangarhar province, along with 35 other extremist fighters.The&nbsp;deaths of Hasib and his associates would "significantly degrade ISIS-K (the name given to IS affiliates active in the Khorasan province) operations in Afghanistan and help reach our goal of destroying them in 2017," the US military said in a statement.The commander of US forces in Afghanistan, General John Nicholson, said that the "successful joint operation is another important step in our relentless campaign" to wipe out the Islamist group. According to Pentagon estimates, around 1,000 IS fighters remain active in Afghanistan.The US has dropped the largest non-nuclear bomb on an "Islamic State" (IS) target in Nangarhar. DW examines the reasons behind the attack, its timing, and whether IS really poses a big threat to the US in Afghanistan. (14.04.2017) Kabul claims that suspected "Islamic State" militants have killed over 30 civilians in the western Ghor province. Experts say the setbacks in Iraq and Syria could be a reason behind the group's focus on Afghanistan. (26.10.2016) In March, the Afghan government declared victory over "Islamic State," but the group's recent gains in eastern Afghanistan reveal a different story. The locals tell DW the situation in Nangarhar is extremely volatile. (28.06.2016) Afghanistan's embattled Nangarhar provinceAfghan and US forces have been conducting special operations in Nangarhar, where two US soldiers were killed on April 26, just a day before the raid that killed Hasib.Hasib is believed to have personally ordered an attack on a Kabul military hospital in March that killed 49 people and wounded a further 76.Nicholson said that Hasib was the second IS leader to be killed in the last nine months, along with dozens of other commanders and hundreds of fighters. He also accused Hasib of having ordered the beheading of local elders and kidnapping women as brides for IS fighters."I applaud the tremendous skill and courage shown by our Afghan partners," Nicholson said. "This fight strengthens our resolve to rid Afghanistan of these terrorists and bring peace and stability to this great country."US forces have been supporting Afghan commandos in recent months by conducting airstrikes on IS positions in Nangarhar province.The compound in which Hasib&nbsp;was killed was located near the tunnel complex that was targeted by the US last month when it unleashed its so-called "Mother of all Bombs" - the biggest non-nuclear weapon ever used by the US in combat.Islamic State (IS) - also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh - is an al Qaeda splinter group with militant Sunni Islamist idealogy. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The group's goal is to create an Islamic state, or "caliphate", across Iraq, Syria and beyond.IS is believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world. It controls territory in Iraq and Syria, and its de facto capital is Raqqa, in Syria. However, the group has lost more than a quarter of its territory since January 2015. There are many groups involved in the fight against IS. The United States is leading air strikes by an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia has conducted air strikes in support of the Syrian government. Regional forces, such as the Kurdish Peshmerga (pictured above), are fighting on the ground.One of the group's main sources of income has been oil and gas - it still controls an estimated one third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led air strikes are deliberately targeting this valuable asset. Other means of income include taxes, ransoms and selling looted antiquities.IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The most deadly to date was a suicide bombing this year in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, in which more than 200 people died and many more were injured. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS can carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group.The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artefacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing", and thousands of women from religious minorites have been enslaved. The group also uses social media as a propaganda and recruitment tool.Around six million Syrians have fled abroad as a result of the ongoing conflict - many to neighboring Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, but also further afield to Europe. More than three million Iraqis have been displaced within the country. Author: Rachel Stewart US set to step up Afghanistan presenceNext week, the Pentagon will ask the White House to send another 3,000 to 5,000 troops to Afghanistan to advise and train local military and police forces. If sanctioned, it would mark a shift in the US' Middle East&nbsp;policy, which has seen it steadily downsize troop numbers in Afghanistan since 2011.The number of US troops currently stationed there number around 8,400, most of whom work in an advisory capacity. That's a far cry from the more than 100,000 troops stationed in Afghanistan six years ago. However, since US troops began pulling out in 2011, local forces have struggled to contain the Taliban&nbsp;and IS' unrelenting insurgencies.dm/jm&nbsp;(AFP, dpa) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2bE82