German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday prompted a fury of reactions from across the Atlantic and within Europe when she suggested that Europe could no longer rely on two of its traditional allies, the US and the UK."The times when we could fully rely on others have passed us by a little bit; that's what I've experienced in recent days," Merkel said during a rally in Munich. "We Europeans must really take our destiny into our own hands."Merkel's remarks come in the aftermath of a NATO summit and G7 meeting in Italy, which brought US President Donald Trump to Europe on his first official foreign trip. But she described the interaction with Trump, most notably on climate change, as "very unsatisfactory." Trump instead deemed the trip a "great success for America."US dividedIn the US, the reaction was mixed, with Trump's supporters dismissing Merkel's comments while his opponents appeared to mourn the loss of the US' special relationship with Germany."If the President of the United States calls that a huge success, I'd hate to see failure," said Adam Schiff, Democratic lawmaker and high-ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee.Council on Foreign Relations President Richard Haas, a veteran US diplomat, described Merkel's comments as a "watershed" in relations between the two allies. "(It's) what the US has sought to avoid since World War II," said Haas.But Trump's supporters have taken Merkel's comments as a sign of the president's success. Bill Mitchell, a conservative commentator dubbed Trump's "most unrelenting social media surrogate" by US media, took the opportunity to lampoon Merkel."Merkel, hero of the left and train wreck of Europe says, 'she cannot rely upon Donald Trump.' Awesome. He opposes your raging stupidity," Mitchell said in a tweet.US President Donald Trump has offered both candid praise and unabashed criticism of Germany and its policies. From calling German Chancellor Angela Merkel as "possibly the greatest world leader" to describing her open-door refugee policy as a "catastrophic mistake," here are his most memorable quotes regarding Germany."Germany's like sitting back silent, collecting money and making a fortune with probably the greatest leader in the world today, Merkel," Trump said in a 2015 interview with US news magazine Time."The Germans are bad, very bad ... Look at the millions of cars they sell in the US. Terrible. We'll stop that," Trump said during a NATO leaders summit, according to German news magazine Der Spiegel, which cited sources at the alliance's meeting."As far as wiretapping, I guess, by - you know - [the Obama] administration, at least we have something in common, perhaps," Trump said in March during a press conference with Merkel. He was referring to his unproven allegations that ex-President Barack Obama tapped his phone. There was widespread anger in Germany in 2013 when it was revealed the US National Security Agency tapped Merkel's phone."I think she made one very catastrophic mistake and that was taking all of these illegals (sic), you know taking all of the people from wherever they come from," Trump said in a joint interview published by German daily Bild and British newspaper The Times, referring to Merkel's open-door policy for refugees fleeing war and persecution."Despite what you have heard from the fake news, I had a great meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Nevertheless, Germany owes vast sums of money to NATO and the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany," Trump said in a two-tweet statement after meeting with Merkel for the first time in March. Author: Lewis Sanders IV UK: 'Strong partner'In the UK, Home Secretary Amber Rudd told BBC radio that even though the UK is leaving the EU, the bloc could still rely on London as a partner."As we begin the negotiations about leaving the EU, we will be able to reassure Germany and other European countries that we are going to be a strong partner to them. A strong partner on defense, security and we hope in trade," Rudd said.Europe: 'Time to look forward'But Guy Verhofstadt, an EU lawmaker and head of Brexit negotiations for the European Parliament, said that the shifts in decades-long relationships need not be a detriment to the bloc's future."Merkel says US under Trump no longer reliable partner. And UK has left the table. It's now time for EU to reinvent itself and move forward," Verhofstadt said.Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon gives any existing member of the European Union the right to quit unilaterally and outlines the procedure for doing so. It gives the state concerned two years to negotiate a deal for its exit. Once Article 50 is triggered, it cannot be stopped, except by the unanimous consent of all member states. There are five elements in Article 50. They state that the exiting country must notify the European Council formally and that it is given a two-year period to reach an agreement. Article 50 also states that the country concerned cannot take part in EU s internal discussions about its departure. The exit deal must be approved by a "qualified majority" and must also get the backing of MEPs.The UK decided in favor of leaving the EU in a referendum in June 2016. After lengthy parliamentary debates and legal procedures, Prime Minister Theresa May looks all set to send a formal letter of notification to EU President Donald Tusk on March 29, which will trigger Article 50. Officials in Brussels have already outlined a divorce bill for Britain of between 55 and 60 billion euros.The EU is expected to give a first response later this week. A summit of EU leaders on April 29 is then to lay down guidelines for the Brexit talks, which are expected to start in May or June. The hardest part of the negotiations will be determining the status of more than a million Britons living in other parts of the EU and of some 3 million EU citizens in Britain, and working out trade details.By autumn this year, the UK government is expected to introduce legislation to leave the EU and put all existing EU laws into British law - the Great Repeal Bill. The possible move will annul the 1972 European Communities Act (ECA), which gives EU law instant effect in the UK, and give parliament the power to absorb parts of EU legislation into UK law, scrapping elements it does not want to keep.EU leaders have said they want to conclude the talks within 18 months to allow the terms of the exit to be ratified by UK and the European Parliaments as well as the EU states. If no agreement is reached in two years and no extension is agreed, the UK automatically leaves the EU and all existing agreements.The fifth paragraph of Article 50 raises the possibility of a state wanting to rejoin the EU after having left it. This would be considered under Article 49. Author: Aasim Saleem Press reactsIn analysis published by Israeli daily Haaretz, Daniella Peled of the Institute for War and Peace Reporting said the fallout of Trump's visit to Europe has effectively undermined trust across the Atlantic."It's hard to think of a clearer sign of the massive and rapid damage Trump has done to decades-old partnerships than Merkel's devastating speech," Peled said. "Angela Merkel has once again cemented her status as the new leader of the free world, not that it was a position that needed much bolstering."London-based news magazine The Economist said that Merkel, a committed "Atlanticist," knew that making such remarks at this moment would "make waves.""Mr. Trump, Brexit and the election of Emmanuel Macron in France have together persuaded Germany's chancellor that while talk of Germany as 'the new leader of the liberal world' is nonsense, continental Europe must now do more in unison, perhaps with some German convening," the publication said.'Deeply convinced transatlanticist'Indeed, Merkel's spokesman Steffen Seibert emphasized that Merkel has called for more unity across the EU before, adding that she is a "deeply convinced transatlanticist.""The chancellor's words speak for themselves - they were clear and comprehensible," Seibert said during a regular press briefing. "Because transatlantic relations are so important to this chancellor, it is right from her viewpoint to speak out honestly about differences."German Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere added that cooperation between Berlin, London and Washington are "of paramount significance for our country," especially when it comes to security and defense.Merkel has become known for using the same hand gesture at public appearances and in front of the camera, putting her fingertips together to form what some call the Merkel-rhombus and others the "triangle of power." If she has done so consciously or as a routine gesture out of habit is a question that have contemporary critics and journalists puzzled. Just what is she trying to say with it?The German chancellor is known for her commanding and engaged appearance, often appearing quite somber, especially in Europe. Though she has been known to crack a smile at the right time, here, at the recent European leaders summit in Bratislava, she was more composed. To her left is Danish Prime Minister Lars Lokke and to her right, the Prime Minster of Belgium, Charles Michel.Merkel has come into the spotlight for her response to last year's influx of refugees.. Questions about her response to the crisis can be answered when elements of her personal life are considered, as Rinke does in his book. She frequently visits schools and refugee shelters and while doing so, takes time out for selfies, as here in 2015 with Syrian asylum applicant Anas Modamani in Berlin.As chancellor and head of the CDU party, Merkel faces a bit of difficulty in remaining considerate with some of her working partners. She does not respond with the huffiness her SPD party colleague Sigmar Gabriel is known for. Against attacks by the head of CSU Bavaria, the "archetypical Bavarian man," Horst Seehofer, she responds with cool objectivity.For trained physicist Angela Merkel, the world of the internet and digital media is said to be relatively foreign, although her team does now have an Instagram account, which is fed by her official photographer. Still, that didn't stop her from grabbing the ear of Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg at a lunch meeting at the UN in 2015.The daughter of a Protestant minister, Merkel's values are said by Rinke to have been shaped by her Christian upbringing. In 2016, she was given a private audience with Pope Francis I at the Vatican, where the two exchanged words on their favorite books.Merkel is not known to let it all hang out and, though rare due to her full schedule, celebrations are done in style. In 2013, in honor of the 50th anniversary of the lysee agreement between Germany and France, Merkel invited the entire parliament to toast the two countries' friendly relations over champagne.The chancellor gets only a few free vacation moments each year and even when on holiday, as here in Poland, she is not free from the prying eyes of the public. Her husband, Joachim Sauer, also pictured here, is rarely in the spotlight. Author: Heike Mund / ct 'Most important postwar relationship'However, some highlighted that Trump's ability to undermine the historic relationship between Berlin and Washington has served the interests of other actors.David Frum, senior editor of the US news magazine The Atlantic, said that Trump's behavior as caused a rift between Germany and the US has effectively served Russian interests."Since 1945, the supreme strategic goal in Europe of the USSR and then Russia was the severing of the US-German alliance. Trump delivered," Frum said.Agreeing with Frum's comments on its benefits for Moscow, Ian Bremmer, founder and director of the consultancy Eurasia Group, said that the "most important postwar relationship," the transatlantic alliance, is "now unraveling.""There's not been a statement like this from Germany in generations," Bremmer said. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2SUV8