North Carolina police stumbled upon an acre (just under half a hectare) of poppy plants used in opium production worth an estimated $500 million (447 million euros) earlier this week. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2Utm5"One of our narcotics investigators came to the house looking for something else. When he knocked on the door, the guys said. 'I guess you're here about the opium,'" said Catawba County Sheriff Coy Reid.The poppy farm was found on a patch of land near Clearmont, which is about 140 miles (225 kilometers) west of the state capital, Raleigh.All 2,000 plants, which were planted behind the house, were confiscated. The Charlotte Observer reported 358 animals, including chickens, dogs and cats were seized from the residence. There were also 40 deceased animals in cages and pens.The sheriff's office said Cody Xiong was arrested and charged with manufacturing and trafficking by possession. Sheriff Reid said the only other opium farm that has been found in the US this year was in California.No other country in the world produces more opium than Afghanistan. In 2013, poppy flowers - from which opium is extracted - were grown on some 209,000 hectares of land (522,000 acres). Heroin is also a drug produced from opium. Nearly 90 percent of these narcotics originate in Afghanistan.In November, 2013, the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) published its annual report. The document came to the disturbing conclusion that the production of opium in Afghanistan, compared to the previous year, had increased by nearly 50 percent to 5,500 tons.The United Nations suspects that there is a connection between the surge in opium production and the withdrawal of international forces. It is possible that opium farmers have increased their production to prepare for politically and economically unstable times. Most observers expect the Afghan economy to suffer when international troops leave at the end of 2014.The UN drug office estimates the value of last year's opium crop in Afghanistan at around 950 million USD (703 million euros). That is equivalent to approximately four percent of the country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP).The temptation for Afghan farmers to plant poppies is great. A kilogram (2.2 lbs) can be sold in Afghanistan for about 150 dollars (110 euros), making the crop an attractive investment. Even though opium is illegal, efforts by agriculture experts to get farmers to grow other crops, such as cotton, have been unsuccessful because the farmers don't earn enough and the crops are difficult to sell.According to the UN drug report, nearly half of the opium harvested in 2013 was grown in the southern province of Helmand, an area that is a stronghold of the Taliban. The provincial government has tried to combat the problem with a campaign to destroy fields, irrigation ditches and wells.In its anti-drug fight, Afghanistan also gets support from the United States. In the spring of 2013, the two sides signed an agreement worth 250 million dollars for upgrading Afghanistan's judiciary and the police force with a special focus on efforts to eradicate the poppy crop. But, according to the Afghan government, some 200,000 households depend on opium for their livelihood.Radical Islamists profit handsomely from the drug trade in Afghanistan. Farmers generally have to pay a fee to the Taliban, who use the money to finance their insurgency against the Kabul government and international forces. Ironically, before the fall of the Taliban in 2001, growing poppies was strictly forbidden.Widespread production - widespread addiction: Drugs are not only grown in Afghanistan; there are also many locals who consume them. The United Nations estimates there are some 1.5 million drug addicts in the country, including some 300,000 children. Author: Esther Felden /gb kbd/kl (AP, Charlotte Observer, dpa) 