Germany's lower house has passed legislation to classify and ban whole groups of designer drugs. In 2015, dozens of people died from the chemical variants, which mimic the effects of illegal narcotics. (23.09.2016) A comprehensive health study in Germany has found that drug and alcohol abuse by young people is at an all-time low. Officials warn, however, that binge drinking remains a rampant problem. (06.04.2016) Police responding to a call for help at a convention center in northern Germany found 30 people in a zombie-like state. It's not yet clear what exactly was going on, but it looks as if methamphetamine was involved. (04.09.2015) A total of 1,333 people in Germany died last year from consuming illegal drugs, government officials said on Friday while presenting the latest report on drug-related crime.It was the fourth year in a row that the number of drug-related deaths rose - up by nine percent from 2015, which saw some 1,226 illegal drug deaths."The fact that the number of drug-related deaths has risen for the fourth time is not good news," the German government's top drug commissioner Marlene Mortler said while presenting the report together with the president of Germany's Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA), Holger M nch."We need even more comprehensive assistance for addicts and their relatives."Neither the call for a war on drugs nor the push for drug legalization will help drug users, Mortler said. "Prevention and early-intervention are key," she urged.Men comprised 84 percent of drug-related deaths with the majority of deaths occurring in Berlin, Bavaria, North Rhine-Westphalia and Rhineland-Palatinate. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1IXW6Rising 'legal high' deathsMortler was particularly concerned about the particularly high rise of deaths from consuming so-called designer drugs or "legal highs." In 2016, 98 deaths from such drugs were recorded - almost triple the number the year before.Drugs in this class, also known as new psychoactive substances, are often purchased through online shops as herbal mixtures, bath salts, air fresheners or plant fertilizer. Their exact composition is not usually known, presenting high risks for those who consume it.Side effects from such psychoactive substances range from nausea and heart palpitations to unconsciousness and death.For the first time in 2016, the number of people who died from taking synthetic opioids, or synthetic painkillers, was also included in the drug-related death count. A total of 76 people died last year from taking such pain killers.To stop the spread of "legal high" drugs, Germany implemented a law in late 2016 to classify and ban whole groups of designer drugs - closing previous loopholes.German police seized hundreds of kilograms of heroin last yearFighting online drug salesAccording to the German Federal Criminal Police, the demand and availability of illegal drugs remains high in Germany.Last year, police were able to secure 330 kilograms of heroin - a rise of 57 percent from 2015. Authorities also secured large amounts of amphetamines, ecstasy and hashish in large quantities last year.Online shops present a particular challenge for police, as "drug trafficking on the internet continues to grow," BKA president M nch said. He added that weapons and other illegal goods can also be purchased through platforms on the darknet, which requires special encryption software or authorization to access.M nch said the BKA wants to train "cyber cops" who can observe such platforms and identify perpetrators.rs/kms (AFP, dpa, epd, KNA)The Nazis sent doped-up soldiers to the front in Poland in 1939 and to France the following year. During the invasion of France, a whopping 35 million tablets of the methamphetamine Pervitin were distributed to soldiers, who named the miracle pill "Panzerschokolade" ("tank chocolate"). It wasn't just the Germans, however: the Allies gave their troops drugs, too.A Japanese chemist created a liquid version of what was to become the German Wehrmacht's miracle pill. The Berlin-based drug firm Temmler refined the drug and took out a patent in 1937. A year later, Pervitin was sold over the counter. It left people alert, fearless, and without need of food or drink. Pervitin is still on the market - illegally - and under a different name: Crystal Meth.Historians disagree over whether the F hrer himself was addicted to Pervitin. Files kept by Hitler's personal doctor, Theo Morell, show a scribbled "x" in reference to a cocktail of medication he was given on any given day - but it isn't exactly clear what it refers to. We do know, though, that Hitler was on a mix of powerful drugs.German chemists' inventive talents go back even further than the Nazi era, however. "No cough thanks to heroin," was the ad slogan for a cough medicine produced by the German drug company Bayer in the late 19th century. Heroin was prescribed to patients - adults and children - suffering from epilepsy, asthma, schizophrenia and heart disease. Any side effects? Bayer listed constipation.Felix Hoffmann is perhaps best known for inventing Aspirin. But that's not all. He also developed heroin while experimenting with acetic acid. Hoffmann combined the acid with morphine, an extract from the poppy pod. Heroin was legal in Germany until 1971 when it was finally outlawed.In 1862, the Darmstadt-based firm Merck started producing large amounts of cocaine as a local anesthetic for ophthalmologists. German chemist, Albert Niemann, had previously isolated an alkaloid he named cocaine from South American coca leaves. Niemann died shortly after discovering cocaine - of lung problems.Sigmund Freud, an Austrian neurologist and the "father of psychoanalysis," consumed cocaine for scientific purposes. In his Cocaine Papers study, Freud described the drug as harmless. He observed "euphoria, more vitality and [a] capacity for work." His enthusiasm waned, however, after a friend died of an overdose. At that time doctors prescribed cocaine for headaches and stomach problems.American chemist, Alexander Shulgin, is widely believed to have invented the party drug ecstasy. But in reality, he rediscovered the compound. The German firm Merck had originally developed and filed for a patent for a colorless oil under the name 3,4-Methylendioxymethamphetamine - MDMA - in 1912. Back then, chemists thought the substance had no commercial value.These German chemists' inventions are still having an impact today. According to estimates by the United Nations about 190,000 people died worldwide in 2013 because of illegal drug consumption. However, alcohol, a legal drug, is responsible for far more deaths. The WHO says 5.9 percent of all deaths in 2012 were due to alcohol consumption - that's 3.3 million people. Author: Nicolas Martin / db