Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has blamed part of her electoral defeat last November on misogyny, Russian interference and FBI director James Comey in her most extensive remarks since the divisive 2016 presidential election.Speaking at an annual luncheon for the Women for Women International&nbsp;charity&nbsp;in New York on Tuesday, Clinton said she took "absolute personal responsibility" for a series of campaign mistakes that contributed to her loss.Despite garnering 2.8 million votes more than her rival, she lost the US presidential election to Donald Trump, who won more votes in the Electoral College.Less than two weeks before the election, Comey sent a letter to US lawmakers saying the FBI was reopening a probe into a personal email server used by Clinton during her tenure as the US&nbsp;top diplomat from 2009 to 2013.However, two days before the election on November 8, he presented another letter saying the bureau had not changed its conclusions offered in July, in which Comey announced there was no basis for prosecution."I was on the way to winning until a combination of Jim Comey's letter on October 28&nbsp;and Russian WikiLeaks raised doubts in the minds of people who were inclined to vote for me, but got scared off," Clinton said.Over the summer, a security company hired by the Democratic National Convention tells the DNC that they have been successfully infiltrated by hackers for more than year. Two groups, known as Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear, both have links to the Russian government, the Washington Post reports.At the end of July, the FBI launches an investigation into whether or not the Russian government ordered the DNC hack. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov calls the move "paranoid."On the campaign trail, Republican nominee Donald Trump encourages Russia to "find the 30,000 emails that are missing." In a series of debates with rival Hillary Clinton, Trump will then cast doubt on Moscow's role in hacks that targeted the DNC and Clinton's campaign manager, John Podesta.Wikileaks begins releasing slightly compromising emails from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. Co-founder Julian Assange defends targeting Clinton, saying Trump's own statements are indictment enough of the Republican nominee. Over a period of months, Wikileaks consistently denies allegations that its sources are Russian.In a rare moment of complete agreement for the US' two biggest intelligence agencies, both the FBI and CIA come to the conclusion that the Russia government sought to influence the US election by promoting unfavorable coverage of Hillary Clinton.Trump, who has made no secret of his admiration for Russian President Vladimir Putin, calls the intelligence reports "ridiculous." Anti-Clinton voices slam the probe as a distraction meant to discredit the now president-elect. This puts Trump at odds with congressional Republicans who call for an independent investigation.At the end of December, the Obama administration expels 35 Russian diplomats and shuts down two Russian intelligence compounds as the Kremlin continues to deny a roll in the summer's cyber attacks. President Putin eschews direct retaliation, saying he will wait to see how President-elect Trump's Russia policies play out. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher 'Intervening events'On Russia's interference in the election, federal agencies including the CIA and National Security Agency concluded that Moscow-backed entities had hacked Democratic Party institutions in a bid to boost Trump's chances at victory. US intelligence also claimed that Russia's President Vladimir Putin had "ordered" their targeted involvement in the election.Emails obtained during various cyberattacks on Democratic Party targets were eventually published by whistleblowing group WikiLeaks, which US authorities have branded as a "hostile intelligence service.""I was the candidate, I was the person who was on the ballot. I am very aware of the challenges, the problems, the shortfalls that we had," Clinton said. "The reasons why I believe we lost were the intervening events in the last 10 days."Clinton's 2016 presidential election campaign marked her second go at the White House, after failing to win the Democratic Party's endorsement against former President Barack Obama in 2008.The wife of US Republican President-elect Donald Trump saw her own share of controversy during Trump's presidential campaign, including allegations that she plagiarized a speech by Michelle Obama. The native Slovenian and former model had to grow a thick skin in next to no time. Born Melanija Knavs, she is Trump's third wife and 24 years his junior.In 2009, Michelle Obama became the first black first lady in US history. The graduate of Princeton University and Harvard Law School has been admired not only for her accomplished past, but also as a style icon. She accompanied her husband on numerous official visits - and always dazzles in creative outfits that match her gracious manner. Here, she's in the White House Garden, which she initiated.Hillary Clinton's two attempts at entering the White House as president both failed. The dream of having the first female US president remains an elusive one, with Trump declaring victory after the November 8 election. During her time as first lady (1992-2000), Clinton was widely regarded as a "secret" vice president and key aid to her husband, former President Bill Clinton.Originally from Italy, Carla Bruni Sarkozy rose to fame as a model and singer. She began studies in art and architecture, but broke them off at the age of 19. She found success with music, especially with the album "Quelqu'un m'a dit" in 2002. In 2008, she married then French President Nicolas Sarkozy. Today, Bruni Sarkozy is still a style icon.The mother of four has been queen of Jordan since 1999, at the side of her husband King Abdullah II. She is known for her social commitment in Jordan and abroad. Rania has participated in demonstrations against the so-called "Islamic State," and met with Syrian refugees in Greece. For her efforts she received the Walther Rathenau Prize from Chancellor Angela Merkel in 2015.She is queen of Swaziland - but one of many, because King Mswati III has 15 wives. But Queen LaMbikiza is the one that accompanies the king at most of his representative occasions - and steals the show with her striking gowns. At home, LaMbikiza is known for her fight against HIV and AIDS.The widow of assassinated US President John F. Kennedy is adored to this day. Jacqueline "Jackie" Bouvier Kennedy, born in 1929, came from New York's upper class and had French roots. Jackie and her husband, whom she married in 1953, were the most glamorous presidential couple ever to move into the White House. Her sense of style made her a legend beyond her time as a first lady. She died in 1994.The successful Hollywood actress, who starred opposite Gary Cooper and Clark Gable, became Princess Grace of Monaco in 1956. But there were rumors throughout her life that she wasn't happy with her marriage. Kelly is even supposed to have said that her wedding was the worst day of her life. In 1982, she died at the age of 52 in a car accident - and became a legend.Soraya Esfandiary-Bakhtiari was the wife of the last shah of Iran. In 1951, at the tender age of 19, she married Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, who ruled the country from 1967 until he was overthrown in the 1979 Iranian Revolution. Soraya spoke fluent German and French, and loved riding and skiing. Her marriage with the shah was annulled after seven years because the couple couldn't have children.This lady was known for her love of luxury and her eccentricities. The former beauty queen was the woman at the side of Ferdinand Marcos, the 10th president of the Philippines from 1966 to 1986. Imelda became world famous for her record-breaking shoe collection, which contained several thousand designer pairs. Author: Jan Bruck (rb), Sertan Sanderson ls/cmk&nbsp;(AFP, Reuters, AP)