Kim Hak Song, who worked at the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology (PUST), was taken into custody on Saturday, North Korea's official KCNA news agency reported."A relevant institution is now conducting detailed investigation into his crimes," it added.Kim is the second American to be arrested in a fortnight. US citizen Kim Sang Dok, who is associated with the same university,&nbsp;was detained in late April&nbsp;for trying to "overturn" the regime, according to North Korean media.The PUST&nbsp;was founded by evangelical Christians in 2010 and generally schools children of the country's elite.Read more:&nbsp;US 'not trying to pick a fight' with North KoreaAt least two other Americans are being held by North Korean authorities. Otton Warmbier, a 22-year-old student from Cincinnati, was sentenced in 2016 to 15 years of hard labor after he confessed to trying to steal a propaganda banner. Kim Dong Chul, a 62-year-old Korean-American missionary, is serving a 10-year sentence for espionage.&nbsp;Neither has appeared in public since their sentencing.Tensions between the US and North Korea have escalated over Pyongyang's ongoing nuclear and missile tests. The country has accelerated its programs under leader Kim Jong Un, carrying out two nuclear tests and some 20 ballistic missile tests in 2016.&nbsp;In February, China banned all coal imports from North Korea. Under tight conditions, North Korea may still export $400.87 million (374 million euros) or 7.5 million metric tons of coal per year, whichever is less. Pictured here is China's Liaoning Greenland Energy Coal Co. in Dandong, on the border with North Korea. North Korea is prohibited from opening banks abroad, and UN member states are prohibited from operating financial institutions on Pyongyang's behalf. Any dealings that might help North Korea skirt the sanctions are banned, and UN member states must expel and repatriate anyone working on the regime's financial behalf.This North Korean cargo ship found itself boarded for inspection in the Philippines in March 2016 after the United Nations ordered member nations to de-register any vessel owned, operated or crewed on orders from Pyongyang. North Korean ships also cannot fly the flags of other nations to evade sanctions. Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, remains exempt from aviation sanctions and still has scheduled flights to China and Russia, as well as several domestic routes. However, the airline cannot fly to the European Union, which has banned it on safety grounds, and the United States prevents citizens from legally conducting business with the carrier.In theory, North Koreans can still cruise the country in Pyeonghwa sedans, as UN sanctions only currently ban the sale of aviation, jet and rocket fuel to Pyongyang. Crude and similar oils remain permitted - for now. The automaker, owned in a joint venture with the deceased North Korean Reverend Sun Myung Moon's influential Unification Church, only cranks out a few hundred cars a year.UN sanctions limit North Korea's diplomats abroad - at the country's Berlin embassy, for example - to only one bank account each. North Korea is also not permitted to own real estate abroad for any purposes other than consular.It's a safe bet that North Korea's marching military did not learn its moves abroad: UN sanctions ban foreign security forces from training the country's army, police or paramilitary units. The United Nations does permit medical exchanges, but otherwise allow very little assistance of scientific or technical value.Anyone wanting to own a larger-than-life Kim will have to await the end of North Korea's nuclear program. The UN sanctions currently ban the sale of statues by the nation. Author: Milan Gagnon (Reuters, UN) nm/tj (AFP, Reuters)