A court in Munich has ruled that the hotel in eastern Germany was under no obligation to divulge the identity of a man who may have impregnated a German woman during a three-night love affair.Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere is planning a major limitation of privacy rights in Germany, say data protection groups. Germans will no longer have the right to know what data about them is being collected. (25.11.2016) The European Court of Human Rights has dismissed a complaint from German TV presenter G nther Jauch and his wife over an unwanted media report on their wedding. The two sought thousands in damages from a German magazine. (16.06.2016) The new EU data protection law aims to improve consumers' legal situation when it comes to their personal information. But experts question whether the laws will have any real impact. (28.09.2016) Germany's top court has ruled that people can demand the deletion of intimate pictures once a relationship is over. Privacy lawyers say the verdict has established the vital principle that consent can be withdrawn. (22.12.2015) Google has decried demands to expand the reach of the European Court of Justice's "right to be forgotten" ruling. France's data protection agency said citizens have the right to privacy as enshrined in international law. (24.03.2016) The woman stayed in the hotel room in Halle with her companion in June 2010. She asked judges to force the hotel to fully name her lover&nbsp;who she knew only as Michael. The hotel had earlier refused to identify the man&nbsp;who was billed for the room or to supply his address.Four men named MichaelThe case was further complicated by the fact that four men stayed at the hotel during the period in question who had the first name of Michael.The only other information the woman knew was that the room they stayed in was on the second floor, according to a court statement.The woman, who has not been named, wanted to claim child support from the man, who she believes is the father of her son -&nbsp;Joel - who was born in March 2011.Hotel acted&nbsp;correctlyThe court ruled that the hotel was correct in refusing to&nbsp;divulge the man's personal details under Germany's Federal Data Protection Act.Since the woman could not describe the man in detail, it was impossible for the hotel to identify just one man, the court ruled.Judges said the man has the right to control&nbsp;his own personal data, along with the right to protect his family and marriage, according to the statement.&nbsp; Those rights took precedence over her right to child maintenance payments, the court added.The four men named Michael also have the right to keep their sexual relations secret, the court said. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2XnmX