Agnes Callamard, the United Nations special rapporteur on extrajudicial killings, used a policy forum at a Manila university on Friday to issue a veiled criticism of&nbsp;President Rodrigo Duterte's deadly war on drugs.The envoy has long spoken out about allegations of systematic summary executions in the country, where thousands of suspected drug dealers and users have died&nbsp;since Duterte launched his&nbsp;campaign&nbsp;in mid-2016.Callamard told the forum she was not in the Philippines in any official capacity and would not be conducting research during her trip, but presidential spokesman Ernesto Abella said the government should have been told about her visit.Read more: Police in Philippines relaunch crackdown on illegal drugs"Callamard has arrived in the Philippines in a manner that circumvents all recognized United Nations protocols for such visits," he said."We are disappointed that, in not contacting our government in advance of this visit, she has sent a clear signal that she is not interested in getting an objective perspective," Abella said in a statement. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2XgaJUN investigationThe UN and the Philippines have differing accounts of Callamard's request to investigate allegations of extrajudicial drugs-related executions in the country.The envoy sought to visit the Philippines last year, but said she ultimately couldn't accept the government's condition that she publicly debate Duterte. Instead, she had suggested a joint news conference.Read more: Trump invites Duterte to White HouseSpokesman Abella said she had failed to respond when the government in September&nbsp;formally invited her to visit, which he said suggested she "would not be approaching her review of allegations concerning our country objectively or comprehensively." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2UGtuWar on drugs 'not working'In her speech at the university Friday, Callamard did not mention the Philippines by name, but said world leaders had recognized that "badly thought out, ill-conceived drug policies not only fail to address drug abuse and trafficking but they add more problems to society. She added that&nbsp;UN member countries instead favored a multi-faceted and scientific approach that promotes the human rights of individuals and communities.She later told reporters she had no ulterior motive for visiting the Philippines, and was there only "for the purpose of an academic conference."Activists in the Philippines allege police are behind thousands of drug user murders, but authorities deny extra-judicial killings have taken place. They say police are only responsible for deaths that were in self-defense during anti-drugs operations.nm/rt (AP, Reuters)Inmates who cannot be accommodated in the prison cells sleep on the ground in the open air. At present, it's rainy season in the Philippines. And in the current tropical temperatures, it's raining almost every day.Whoever possesses a hammock should consider themselves lucky. The prison, which was built 60 years ago, has a capacity to house 800 inmates. But today there are as many as 3,800.Every nook and corner in the prison is occupied. Most of the prisoners sleep on either thin sheets or bare concrete floor.A prisoner toughens up his muscles in an exercise room.Signboards remind inmates of prison rules. The handcuffed prisoners shown here are awaiting their trial.One prisoner cleans the toilet while the others try to kill time.Only occasionally can the prisoners free themselves of sweat, filth and stench.A guard locks the gate in the evening, while the inmates get ready for another night in the overcrowded prison.Many hold newly elected President Duterte responsible for the inhumane situation. His campaign against drugs has shown no mercy. He has called on the people to kill drug addicts, which has led to an unprecedented wave of vigilantism in the Southeast Asian nation. Cases have been filed against 600,000 drug dealers and addicts so far, completely overwhelming the justice system. Author: Rodion Ebbighausen / sri