US President Donald Trump has lashed out against Germany once more on Twitter, criticizing its trade surplus and lack of payments to NATO. Things will change, he warned. (30.05.2017) Analysts say comments about Trump were designed for a domestic German audience and election impact. But Merkel's tough stance has still reverberated abroad. (29.05.2017) More than a thousand companies and investment firms hope US President Trump will stick to the Paris Climate Agreement. The president is said to be "wide open" on the matter. A decision is expected this week. (29.05.2017) Critics saw the US president's NATO debut as the latest in a series of political missteps. But for his supporters, Donald Trump delivered a slam dunk by pushing his views - and himself - into the spotlight. (26.05.2017) The German chancellor did not mince words after the G7 fiasco, saying 'the times when we could fully rely on others are somewhat over.' Is the transatlantic relationship over? Dagmar Engel takes a closer look. (29.05.2017) The leader of Germany's Social Democrats, Martin Schulz, who will confront Chancellor Angela Merkel in September elections, on Tuesday became the latest German politician to join in a war of words with Washington.Schulz described US President Donald Trump as "a destroyer of all Western values such as we have never before experienced in this form."Trump's destructive strategy targeted, tolerance, respect and cooperation between peoples on the basis of mutual acceptance, Schulz said. Schulz' comments came shortly after Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel unleashed a barrage of criticism against Trump's administration, following the widely publicized remarks by German Chancellor Angela Merkel.Read: Merkel makes waves with views on EU-US relations.Gabriel spoke of the US "dropping out as an important nation.""That's unfortunately a signal for a change in the world's balance of power," he said.Gabriel also criticized the Trump administration for selling weapons to Saudi Arabia, its refugee policy, and its lack of commitment to fight climate change. Gabriel, who also serves as Germany's vice chancellor, said that "anyone who accelerates climate change by weakening environmental protection, who sells more weapons in conflict zones and who does not want to politically resolve religious conflicts is putting peace in Europe at risk.""The short-sighted policies of the American government stand against the interests of the European Union," he said at the refugee conference, adding that the West "became weaker." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2dnQFTrump wades in again, tooGabriel's center-left SPD party is a partner to Angela Merkel's CDU in Germany's current ruling coalition, but the two groups are also set for a showdown in general elections in September. The growing rift between Berlin and Washington under Trump marks a sharp contrast in comparison to mostly close relations under former president Barack Obama.Trump on Tuesday himself made another Twitter contribution to aggravating the divide between the two countries, again accusing Germany of putting the US at a disadvantage with its trade surplus, and failing to make enough payments to NATO.Read: Trump launches new Twitter tirade against GermanyAmericans out, China in?In German public broadcaster ZDF's main evening news show, Gabriel restated his complaints, focusing on Trump's behavior during his recent diplomatic tour.Specifically, he said Trump "lectured his colleagues and notably shoved a prime minister aside" at a NATO summit. The minister also lamented Trump ''moving away from Western ideas," including international law."American colleagues apparently do not realize that, when they leave, there are others who are coming in, for example China, with completely different ideas."Germany to help othersIn response to the crisis, Europe should be "sticking together and growing stronger" and defend the ideas of democracy, liberalism, and openness, he said. Germany should also do more to help countries like France and Italy to reach their economic potential, according to Gabriel."Most importantly, we need to stop demeaning or lecturing others," he added.US President Donald Trump has offered both candid praise and unabashed criticism of Germany and its policies. From calling German Chancellor Angela Merkel as "possibly the greatest world leader" to describing her open-door refugee policy as a "catastrophic mistake," here are his most memorable quotes regarding Germany."Germany's like sitting back silent, collecting money and making a fortune with probably the greatest leader in the world today, Merkel," Trump said in a 2015 interview with US news magazine Time."The Germans are bad, very bad ... Look at the millions of cars they sell in the US. Terrible. We'll stop that," Trump said during a NATO leaders summit, according to German news magazine Der Spiegel, which cited sources at the alliance's meeting."As far as wiretapping, I guess, by - you know - [the Obama] administration, at least we have something in common, perhaps," Trump said in March during a press conference with Merkel. He was referring to his unproven allegations that ex-President Barack Obama tapped his phone. There was widespread anger in Germany in 2013 when it was revealed the US National Security Agency tapped Merkel's phone."I think she made one very catastrophic mistake and that was taking all of these illegals (sic), you know taking all of the people from wherever they come from," Trump said in a joint interview published by German daily Bild and British newspaper The Times, referring to Merkel's open-door policy for refugees fleeing war and persecution."Despite what you have heard from the fake news, I had a great meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Nevertheless, Germany owes vast sums of money to NATO and the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany," Trump said in a two-tweet statement after meeting with Merkel for the first time in March. Author: Lewis Sanders IV dj/rg (AFP, Reuters, AP, dpa)