Germany's foreign minister has praised Kosovo for its pro-EU leanings, but cautioned that improved relations with Serbia were needed to join the bloc. He also asked the EU for more investment in Kosovo's infrastructure. (13.04.2017) A court in France has denied an extradition request from Serbia for Ramush Haradinaj. Serbia considers him a war criminal for leading an insurgency in Kosovo. (27.04.2017) Serbia's president has threatened to deploy the army if "Serbs are being killed" in Kosovo. A Kosovo-bound train covered in Serbian national symbols has escalated tensions in the region. (15.01.2017) Prime Minister Isa Mustafa's government lost the vote in the 120-seat parliament 78-34 after a three hour debate on Wednesday.Valdete Bajrami&nbsp;of the NISMA opposition, which initiated the motion accusing the government of failing to meet its campaign pledges and creating public distrust, told parliament: "The country is badly governed. The country needs a new government."Mustafa, who previously served as the mayor of the capital Pristina,&nbsp;defended his government ahead of the vote saying: "In my government there are no corrupt people."According to the constitution there will have to be elections in June as none of the parties represented in parliament were prepared to create a new coalition to form another government.House speaker Kadri Veseli whose Democratic Party of Kosovo held 69 seats in parliament and was a coalition partner with Mustafa's Democratic League of Kosovo, posted a note on Twitter saying the country needed a new beginning "to open exciting new chapters of our history."Montenegro demarcation delayThe elections will further delay an agreement between Kosovo and Montenegro to formally recognize the boundaries between the two countries: it&nbsp;had stumbled over opposition objections that it would lead to a loss of 82 square kilometers (31.6 square miles)&nbsp;of valuable Kosovan pasture and farmland.The opposition has been calling for an end to Mustafa's government for the last two years, mainly over the agreements Mustafa signed in Brussels in 2015 on border demarcation with Montenegro,&nbsp;which still needs parliamentary approval.Landlocked Kosovo shares borders with Albania, Macedonia, Serbia and MontenegroDemarcation is a key demand from the EU - which Kosovo is hoping to join. The EU has said it cannot proceed with visa liberalization for Kosovo until the border issue with Montenegro is resolved.Kosovo had previously achieved a similar demarcation agreement with Macedonia.Opposition to the demarcation agreement goes back to the 1990s Balkan wars when the issue of territorial land was rooted in ethnic conflict. Kosovo broke with Serbia in 1999 and declared independence in 2008. While it has been recognized by 114&nbsp;countries, Serbia, Russia, China, India, Iran and EU members&nbsp;Spain and Greece have not recognized Kosovo as an independent state.jm/kms (Reuters, AFP)