Which set of ethical values, what rules and laws are the basis of German society today? For a basic understanding, you can check out the "Grundgesetz" or Basic Law, which came into effect on May 23, 1949. Here are some examples:Human dignity is unviolable: Men and women have the same rights - even if this is not always implemented. There is no "state religion" in Germany. Everyone can freely choose their religion - and live by its rules. Freedom of opinion is a basic right in Germany - but this does not include libel or slander. It is also not permitted to deny the Holocaust. A child born to German parents gets the German citizenship. But there are other possibilities too. The chancellor can appoint the cabinet ministers, but she can not dismiss judges. The Basic Law specifies which powers the chancellor, the president, the parliament and other state institutions have. The Basic Law also stipulates: Germany is a democracy. Here you can read what refugees, who have found safety in Germany, say about the Basic Law:The German Basic Law is important to me because it also mentions our rights as refugees. Our rights are respected in Germany. I am 18 years old and I have been in Germany for one and a half years. I fled together with my parents and brothers from Damascus. The safety I find here is very dear to me. I was introduced to the German Basic Law in my integration course. We discussed basic human rights. I was impressed that childrens' rights are very important and that men and women are equal. For people who have lived in dictatorships, this is something very special. I also appreciate the respect for religious diversity.In Germany, there is democracy and equality for all. In my country Afghanistan, this is different. There is no gender equality. Not everyone can receive education, not everyone can work. The Basic Law is complicated on the one hand, because I don t understand everything, as I come from a different culture. But on the other hand, it lays out clearly the rights of the people which I value greatly.Every person has their own dignity that cannot be taken away. That's why the Basic Law is important to me. It states that human dignity is inviolable. The right to freedom - to religious freedom, to freedom of expression, to a life without restraints - is something I truly value as long as it does not limit the freedoms of others, of course.Under the German law, everyone is equal. In my country, this is not the case. Army officers and the secret service stand above the law; women and men are not treated as equals. The first paragraph is especially important to me. It talks about dignity and freedom. When the Syrian revolution began, people were demanding the same. In Germany, they wrote this in their Basic Law already in 1949.The Basic Law is important to me because it guarantees my freedoms and my rights. Under this law, people of different ethnic backgrounds, religions and cultures can live together peacefully in one country. I also think it is important because it states that no one is above the law.