Officers raided six sites across Berlin on Wednesday and detained nine people, who police said were wanted on suspicion of organized drug dealing. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2dTw3Among the nine arrested were four who police described as linked to the "Islamist spectrum willing to use violence."As well as weapons found at the addresses, police confiscated drugs and electronic devices.The arrests were made just a day before former US president Barack Obama was due to address crowds at the four-day Kirchentag festival, alongside German Chancellor Angela Merkel.Read more: How 'closed communities' provide a breeding ground for radical IslamIn a statement, Berlin police said three of those detained had outstanding arrest warrants, while a fourth was due to appear in court on Wednesday over a previous offense.Dr. Elham Manea spent four years studying Sharia councils in Britain. Talking to DW in the aftermath of the Manchester attack, she reveals how parallel societies give rise to radicalization and how to prevent it. (24.05.2017) Germany's 'Kirchentag,' a Protestant form of Woodstock, begins on Wednesday in Berlin. This year, the 500th anniversary of the Reformation will be the featured topic, with many big names expected to make an appearance. (24.05.2017) The expelled man's phone number was allegedly found in the contact list of Amri, who killed 12 people in December. Italy says it has deported 153 suspected religious extremists since 2015. (12.03.2017) Authorities in Germany have reportedly lost track of three radical Islamists who have been deemed a security risk. The government is under pressure to prevent a repeat of last month's deadly attack on a market in Berlin. (19.01.2017) The other five men are still under investigation.Hundreds of officers, including police special units, were deployed for Wednesday's early morning raids, which took place in the Berlin neighborhoods of Neuk lln, K penick, Mariendorf and Zehlendorf.The German capital has remained on high alert since Tunisian migrant Anis Amri plowed a stolen truck into a Christmas market last December, killing 12 people.The attack was later claimed by the self-proclaimed "Islamic State" (IS) group.Authorities were criticized for failing to arrest and deport Amri, who was a failed asylum seeker and a known drug dealer.mm/rc (AP, dpa, Reuters)