Britain's Prince Philip, the 95-year-old husband of Queen Elizabeth II, has decided to retire from royal duties "from the autumn of this year," Buckingham Palace announced&nbsp;in a statement issued Thursday.The prince, also known as the Duke of Edinburgh,&nbsp;"has the full support of the queen," the statement went on. "Prince Philip will attend previously scheduled engagements between now and August, both individually and accompanying the queen."Philip, who turns 96 in June,&nbsp;is the longest-serving consort in British history. He has been ever-present at his wife's side since she was crowned in 1953. Over the decades he has developed a reputation&nbsp;for his devotion to duty and blunt, forthright style, including&nbsp;a tendency to make inappropriate and often politically incorrect comments.Philip has held royal titles since his birth on June 10, 1921, in Corfu. As the only son of Prince Andrew of Greece and Princess Alice of Battenberg, he was born the Prince of Greece and Denmark - titles he would relinquish upon marrying Princess Elizabeth. After fleeing unrest in Greece at just 18 months, Philip went on to become a naturalized British citizen.As the Queen's husband of nearly 70 years, Prince Philip is the longest-serving British consort (companion to the sovereign). The couple was married on November 20, 1947, at Westminster Abbey, at which point Philip was given the title of Duke of Edinburgh. Less than four years later, Princess Elizabeth had ascended to the throne after the death of her father, King George VI.Philip and Elizabeth had two children, Charles and Anne (pictured), prior to Elizabeth's ascension, and two more after, Andrew and Edward. As their first-born, Prince Charles is next in line for the throne.Until his retirement in August 2017, Prince Philip will have served as patron or president to some 800 organizations. These reflect his interests in conservation, sport, the military and engineering. He also established The Duke of Edinburgh Award in 1956, which recognizes youth achievement.As someone who has taken part in many official ceremonies and photo ops, Prince Philip has developed a reputation for being gaffe-prone at best, and insulting at worst. Upon meeting a group of Australian Aborigines in 2002, the prince asked "still throwing spears at each other?"Princess Charlotte, pictured here with her mother the Duchess of Cambridge, is one of Prince Philip's five great-grandchildren. He has eight grandchildren, including Charlotte's father, Prince William.In November 2017, Prince Philip and the Queen will mark their 70th wedding anniversary. Philip will celebrate his 96th birthday in June and has announced his intention to relinquish his royal duties in August. Author: Matt Zuvela Despite suffering&nbsp;from heart disease and other ailments in recent years, he has maintained a vigorous public schedule. Last year he attended&nbsp;219 royal engagements.The palace said the Duke would continue heading numerous charitable organizations although he "will no longer play an active role by attending engagements."&nbsp;The statement added&nbsp;that the queen, 91,&nbsp;would keep up her&nbsp;"full programme of official engagements with the support of members of the Royal Family."Both royals have gradually been cutting their workload in recent years, passing on many responsibilities to son and heir Prince Charles, and grandsons, Princes William and Harry.Queen Elizabeth became Britain's monarch on February 6, 1952, the day her father, King George VI, died. Since then she has ruled over the United Kingdom, and has been head of the Commonwealth and the Church of England. Sixty-five years later, the 90-year-old queen makes history by becoming the first British monarch to celebrate a Sapphire Jubilee.Queen Victoria (1819-1901) had previously held the record for the longest time on the throne. She became Queen in 1837 and held the office until her death: 63 years and seven months. Spanning several generations, her reign impacted an entire epoch, which was named after her. During the Victorian Era, Britain experienced economic growth and its empire reached the climax of its power.Queen Elizabeth has already been the oldest monarch in British history since December 20, 2007. This was the first of Victoria's records broken by Elizabeth. Victoria was 81 years, seven months and 29 days old when she died. Queen Elizabeth turned 90 on April 21, 2016. She also became the oldest monarch in the world when Abdullah of Saudi Arabia passed away on January 23, 2015.Queen Victoria still has one up on Elizabeth, however. On January 1, 1877, she became the first British monarch to hold the title Empress of India, which incorporated India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar at the time. In 1947, India and Pakistan gained their independence from Britain.Queen Victoria married her cousin, Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, in 1840. They had nine children together. When Albert died in December 1861 at the young age of 42, Victoria fell into depression and largely withdrew from public life.Queen Elizabeth has visited Germany seven times during her reign. She came for the first time in May 1965. She is pictured here in Bonn with Heinrich L bke, who was Germany's 70-year-old president at the time. During that first visit, the Queen spent 11 days touring Germany, including stops in the capital, Bonn, divided Berlin, and 16 additional cities.In June 2015, the Queen visited Germany once again. She's pictured here with her husband, Prince Philip, German President Joachim Gauck and his wife, Daniela Schadt, in front of the presidential residence in Berlin. Queen Elizabeth also went to Frankfurt and paid a visit to the site of the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, which was liberated by British soldiers at the end of World War II.Queen Elizabeth is currently the oldest monarch in the world and now the longest reigning in Britain. But she's not the longest reigning royal in recorded history. That title is held by former King of Swaziland Sobhuza II, who spent 82 years on the throne, from December 10, 1899 to August 21, 1982. Author: Nikolas Fischer (kbm, eg) British Prime Minister Theresa May thanked Philip for his contribution to Britain and his "steadfast support" of Queen Elizabeth.&nbsp;"On behalf of the whole country, I want to offer our deepest gratitude and good wishes to His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh," she said in a statement, adding that his commitment to hundreds of charities and good causes would "be of huge benefit to us all for years to come."Opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn also paid tribute to Philip and praised the Duke of Edinburgh Award scheme he founded in the 1950's to reward youth achievement.Earlier in the day, speculation about an imminent royal announcement spread on social media following reports that&nbsp;a meeting of senior household staff had been called in London overnight. Buckingham Palace sources later confirmed that staff had been summoned, but that there was "no cause for alarm" about the welfare of Elizabeth or Philip.The two appeared to be in good health Wednesday. The Queen met with Prime Minister&nbsp;May to mark the dissolution of parliament ahead of the June general election. Philip&nbsp;opened a new stand at Lord's cricket ground.nm/rt (AFP, Reuters, AP)