Hungary has said it has filed a law suit against the European Union (EU), over plans to redistribute hundreds of thousands of refugees. Budapest has also launched a nationwide media campaign against the quota system. (03.12.2015) Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi has said that EU states that continue to refuse to take in refugees to help frontline countries in Europe's migration crisis should have their EU funding cut. (12.10.2016) Frontex, the EU's border agency, has reported that 350,000 people have arrived in the EU so far this year. The number is a sharp fall from last year's total. (17.12.2016) Representatives of the two nations addressed the European Court of Justice (ECJ) on Wednesday in a bid to dispute the EU's decision to distribute&nbsp;migrants throughout the bloc on a quota basis. Faced with hundreds of thousands of migrants sailing to Italian and Greek shores,&nbsp; the EU Council decided to lighten the load by distributing newcomers among the remaining members states. However, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic all voted against the move.Bratislava and Budapest decided to take the decision to court, disputing its legal basis."We have complied a ten-point list of reasons we believe this decision to be illegal," Hungary's Justice Minister Laszlo Trocsanyi told &nbsp;German daily "Welt." The decision to assign quotas also sends the wrong signal to potential migrants, the minister said.This message is "Go ahead and come to Europe, we will handle the distribution," according to Trocsanyi. "Secondly, it's not effective. These people want to go to very specific countries, not&nbsp;countries like Romania, Bulgaria, or Hungary. Those who were sent to Latvia were back in Germany in just two days.""Thirdly, it's an issue of sovereignty," he added.Hungary waits for ECJ judgesAccording to the quota agreement, &nbsp;EU members were required to take in over 100,000 immigrants from its two most burdened states. "Almost two years later, only 14 percent of refugees have been&nbsp;relocated from Italy and 18 of those from Greece," Trocsanyi added.Hungary constructed barbed wire fence on border with Serbia and CroatiaThe ECJ judges are expected to pass their ruling in several months time. If the court upholds the EU's decision, Hungary and Slovakia will accept the ruling, the official said."Hungary abides by the law and fulfils its duties," he said.Frontex to take over deportationThe EU's deportation policy is among the biggest problems of the refugee crisis, as returning migrants to their home countries is "mostly not possible," the minister told&nbsp;"Welt."Budapest wants a new, Europe-wide solution to ease deportation, by boosting the EU's border protection agency Frontex."We need to provide Frontex with new abilities and financial support, in order to organize flights and take&nbsp;migrants back to their home countries if they don't qualify for protection," Trocsanyi said.Especially for the smaller countries, it would be "more effective if EU's Frontex negotiates return with migrant home countries, than for example Hungary negotiating with Afghanistan." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cc0Fdj/rt&nbsp;(KNA, dpa)