Turkey on Monday protested against what it called "aggressive and unprofessional actions" by American security personnel during Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's visit to Washington and meeting with his US counterpart, Donald Trump, last week. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2dCgbThe Turkish Foreign Ministry said it had summoned the US Ambassador to Ankara, John Bass, to be given a "written and verbal protest" over the brief detention of two official security personnel. The two men were caught up in a brawl outside the Turkish ambassador's residence in the US capital.Read more: Turkey's Erdogan calls arming of Kurdish YPG 'unacceptable' in meeting with Trump Erdogan's visit to Washington last week was marred by brutal clashes between the bodyguards and a group of pro-Kurdish and Armenian activists. Video footage appeared to show official Turkish security personnel hitting and kicking demonstrators. Several people were injured and hospitalized, including a Washington police officer.Monday's statement from the foreign ministry said the two detained men were bodyguards for Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu. Erdogan's bodyguards were also reported to have been involved in the scuffle.All sides dish out blameThe melee and subsequent violent response from bodyguards were widely condemned by US lawmakers. US Senator John McCain, a leading foreign policy voice in Congress, on Thursday called for the expulsion of Turkey's US envoy. Meanwhile, US media were reporting that Turkey's US envoy had been summoned by a US under-secretary of state.A blood covered resident of Istanbul stands near the Bosphorus Bridge. There were clashes between civilians and the army after the military had blocked the bridge. Government sources say that more than 260 people were killed in fighting during the coup attempt.Tanks drove through several cities in the night in a completely surprise move. The Turkish military announced its takeover. The tracked vehicles flattened cars in the streets of Istanbul and Ankara, turning the country into a war zone.After the bombing of parliament in Ankara, the building is in ruins. Fighter jets flew low over the capital and had the citizens panicking.The army not only closed the Bosphorus Bridge: it also occupied Taksim Square, a main transportation hub in Istanbul. The soldiers positioned themselves in front of the Republic Monument.Erdogan supporters also protested on the square. A showdown began when a soldier pointed his gun at a man. The army opened fire on the protesting crowd on the square.Shirts off their backs: After the failed coup attempt, rebel soldiers laid down their arms on the Bosporus Bridge and fled.After the armed forces had surrendered, soldiers tried to get on a bus to flee from the angry masses.President Tayyip Erdogan returned to Istanbul. Cheering crowds received him at the airport. Erdogan announced that the rebels would pay a heavy price.Erdogan supporters triumph and wave the Turkish flag after the army's withdrawal. The coup attempt has failed.Bizarre souvenir: A mother took a picture of her daughter on top of a tank. The tank on the Bosphorus Bridge was surrounded by Turkish police. Author: Astrid Prange / gro Read more: US condemns Erdogan bodyguard attack on Kurdish protestersHowever, The Turkish Foreign Ministry sought to shift blame back on the US, saying it expected US authorities to conduct "a full investigation of this diplomatic incident" that saw its two security officials treated "contrary to diplomatic rules and practices." It also hit out at the "the inability of US authorities to take sufficient precautions at every stage" of Erdogan's visit.The New York Times newspaper reported that the two guards were detained for attacking American Diplomatic Security but were released shortly afterwards because of their immunity.The brawl has added to the US and Turkey's already strained ties. The two NATO allies are at odds over the US' decision to arm Syrian Kurds fighting the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) jihadist group. Ankara views the pro-Kurdish militant cells as a terrorist group, despite them leading the fight against IS in parts of Syria.dm/se (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa)