Both Afghanistan and Pakistan accuse each other of starting a gun battle near the border town of Chaman early on Friday. &nbsp;Locals in the area said Pakistani and Afghan troops guns and artillery shells."So far, we have received nine bodies. These civilians were killed as a result of the Afghan shelling," said Akhtar Mohammad, a doctor at the state-run hospital in Chaman.Dozens more people on both sides were reported injured, some of them in critical conditions. Several Afghan&nbsp;border guards were also wounded. Some of the injured said their homes were destroyed in the shelling.The Indian military has launched a fresh offensive against armed rebels in Kashmir, surrounding at least 20 villages in Shopian district. New Delhi accuses Islamabad of backing the militants, who cross over the Pakistani-Indian "Line of Control" and launch attacks on India's paramilitary forces.India said Wednesday it would retaliate to the killings of its troops by Pakistani military. Islamabad denies allegations that its border forces killed and mutilated the bodies of Indian soldiers on Monday. "The government demands that Pakistan take immediate action against its soldiers and commanders responsible for this heinous act," said Foreign Secretary Subrahmanyam Jaishankar.Since 1989, Muslim insurgents have been fighting Indian forces in the Indian-administered part of Kashmir - a region of 12 million people, about 70 percent of whom are Muslim. India and Pakistan have fought two of their three wars since independence in 1947 over Kashmir, which they both claim in full but rule in part.The security situation in the Indian part of Kashmir has been volatile since the killing of Burhan Wani, a young separatist leader, in July last year. Protests against Indian rule and clashes between separatists and soldiers have claimed hundreds of lives since then.In September, Islamist militants killed at least 17 Indian soldiers and wounded 30 in India-administered Kashmir. The Indian army said the rebels had infiltrated the Indian part of Kashmir from Pakistan, with initial investigations suggesting that the militants belonged to Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad group, which has been active in Kashmir for over a decade.Some Indian civil society members believe New Delhi cannot exonerate itself from responsibility by accusing Islamabad of creating unrest in the valley. A number of rights organizations demand that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government reduce the number of troops in Kashmir and let the people decide their fate.Indian authorities banned a number of social media websites in Kashmir after video clips showing troops committing grave human rights violations went viral on the Internet. One such video that showed a Kashmiri protester tied to an Indian army jeep - apparently as a human shield - generated outrage on social media.Ahead of his official visit to New Delhi, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan advocated a "multilateral" solution to the Kashmir dispute. During an interview, Erdogan expressed his concern at the continuing stand-off between India and Pakistan on the Kashmir region. India dismissed his remarks and said the Kashmir dispute could only be resolved bilaterally between New Delhi and Islamabad.Those in favor of an independent Kashmir want Pakistan and India to step aside and let the Kashmiri people decide their future. "It is time India and Pakistan announce the timetable for withdrawal of their forces from the portions they control and hold an internationally supervised referendum," Toqeer Gilani, the president of Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front in Pakistani Kashmir, told DW.But most Kashmir observers don't see it happening in the near future. They say that while the Indian strategy to deal strictly with militants and separatists in Kashmir has partly worked out, sooner or later New Delhi will have to find a political solution to the crisis. Secession, they say, does not stand a chance. Author: Shamil Shams Pakistani troops were accompanying census workers in the border area when the fighting started. Afghan&nbsp;police spokesman Zia Durani accused Islamabad of using the&nbsp; census as cover for "malicious activities and to provoke villagers against the government."Durani also claimed Pakistani "militias" were trying to cross the border."They did not heed the warning, and we have clear orders to engage them," the spokesman from the Afghan&nbsp;state of Kandahar said.Afghanistan authorities have repeatedly blamed Pakistan for sheltering Taliban forces on its territory.British-made borderIn turn, the&nbsp;Pakistani military said Afghanistan border guards were creating "hurdles" for census taking "despite the fact that Afghan authorities had been informed well in advance" of the process. The army closed the Chaman border crossing after the exchange of fire, which is one of the two main transfer points on the border. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2ZvrkThe two countries are separated by a porous 2,430-kilometer (1,510-mile)&nbsp; demarcation line originally drawn up by the British in the late 19th century. Kabul has never formally recognized the process.While various tribes live on both sides of the borders and many locals cross the border daily with impunity, both governments have recently been attempting to control the movement in the area. Earlier this year, Pakistan closed down the border for over a month after a suicide bomber killed nearly 90 people at a Sufi Islam shrine.dj/sms(AFP, dpa, Reuters)&nbsp;