Talks between North Korea and the United States could be held if the circumstances were favorable,&nbsp;a senior Pyongyang diplomat said on Saturday in comments carried by South Korea's Yonhap news agency.The director general for US affairs of the North Korean Foreign Ministry, Choe Son Hui (above photo), made the remark&nbsp;to reporters in Beijing on her way home from Norway, Yonhap said."We'll have dialogue if the conditions are there," she said.Her remarks come after US President Donald Trump earlier this month said that he would be "honored" to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un "under the right circumstances."Trump also said in an interview with Reuters in late April that he would prefer to use diplomatic means to resolve a long-running dispute with the reclusive communist state over its nuclear and missile programs, though he warned that a "major, major conflict" with the country was possible.Pyongyang's missile tests are heightening tensions'We'll see'Tensions on the Korean Peninsula are running high, with Pyongyang repeatedly carrying out missile tests, most recently at the end of April. Since 2006, the nation has also undertaken five atomic tests in defiance of UN and US sanctions, two of them in the past year, according to statements from Pyongyang.In response, the US deployed a THAAD missile defense system in South Korea earlier this year, which went into operation this month.Choe was somewhat less definite when asked whether the North was considering talks with the new government in South Korea under President Moon Jae-in, saying only: "We'll see."Moon has struck a conciliatory toneMoon, who took office on Wednesday, has said he wants has a closer and more cooperative relationship with the leadership in Pyongyang, stating that he would be&nbsp;willing to travel to North Korea for talks with Kim.Read: Moon's olive branch to North KoreaHe said sanctions on the North should be accompanied by dialogue aimed at resolving the conflict over North Korea's weapons program, which the North says is intended to deter what it calls "US aggression."In February, China banned all coal imports from North Korea. Under tight conditions, North Korea may still export $400.87 million (374 million euros) or 7.5 million metric tons of coal per year, whichever is less. Pictured here is China's Liaoning Greenland Energy Coal Co. in Dandong, on the border with North Korea. North Korea is prohibited from opening banks abroad, and UN member states are prohibited from operating financial institutions on Pyongyang's behalf. Any dealings that might help North Korea skirt the sanctions are banned, and UN member states must expel and repatriate anyone working on the regime's financial behalf.This North Korean cargo ship found itself boarded for inspection in the Philippines in March 2016 after the United Nations ordered member nations to de-register any vessel owned, operated or crewed on orders from Pyongyang. North Korean ships also cannot fly the flags of other nations to evade sanctions. Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, remains exempt from aviation sanctions and still has scheduled flights to China and Russia, as well as several domestic routes. However, the airline cannot fly to the European Union, which has banned it on safety grounds, and the United States prevents citizens from legally conducting business with the carrier.In theory, North Koreans can still cruise the country in Pyeonghwa sedans, as UN sanctions only currently ban the sale of aviation, jet and rocket fuel to Pyongyang. Crude and similar oils remain permitted - for now. The automaker, owned in a joint venture with the deceased North Korean Reverend Sun Myung Moon's influential Unification Church, only cranks out a few hundred cars a year.UN sanctions limit North Korea's diplomats abroad - at the country's Berlin embassy, for example - to only one bank account each. North Korea is also not permitted to own real estate abroad for any purposes other than consular.It's a safe bet that North Korea's marching military did not learn its moves abroad: UN sanctions ban foreign security forces from training the country's army, police or paramilitary units. The United Nations does permit medical exchanges, but otherwise allow very little assistance of scientific or technical value.Anyone wanting to own a larger-than-life Kim will have to await the end of North Korea's nuclear program. The UN sanctions currently ban the sale of statues by the nation.