Tens of thousands of people have marched through the Taiwanese capital in support of gay rights. Activists are calling on their new government to make Taiwan the first Asian country to legalize gay marriage. (29.10.2016) The men have been charged with belonging to "an unlawful society." Being in a homosexual relationship can come with a hefty prison sentence in Nigeria. (20.04.2017) Authorities in Indonesia's Aceh province have publicly caned two men for having sex with each other. The punishment has come to symbolize a wave of officialized homophobia in the archipelago nation. (23.05.2017) Though a Chinese court rejected a same-sex marriage lawsuit, many believe the case affirmed a growing acceptance of LGBT rights in China. DW examines the implications of the decision for country's gay rights movement. (15.04.2016) Around 1,000 people have marched through Bucharest amid proposals to amend the constitution and ban gay marriage. Orthodox Church groups claim to have 3 million signatures in support of the plan. (21.05.2017) Taiwan became the first country in Asia to legalize same-sex marriage in a landmark court ruling on Wednesday. The Constitutional Court gave the government two years to enact relevant legislation."The need, capability, willingness and longing, in both physical and psychological senses, for creating such permanent unions of intimate and exclusive nature are equally essential to homosexuals and heterosexuals, given the importance of the freedom of marriage to the sound development of personality and safeguarding of human dignity," the ruling read.Hundreds of marriage equality supporters cheered and wept on the courthouse steps as the news was announced.Happy news after weeks of bleak headlinesApproval for gay marriage and expanding LGBT rights has been gaining traction in Taiwan for years. Where homosexuality is still treated with oppression and derision in other parts of the region, a strong and successful lobby has done wonders for public perception on the island nation, and ever year the country's Pride celebrations are attended by hundreds of thousands. Even President Tsai Ing-wen, the country's first female leader, has been a vocal proponent of marriage equality."The party is happy to see and affirm the results of the grand justices' constitutional interpretation to guarantee and legalise same-sex marriage," Tsai's Democratic Progressive Party said in a statement.It was a heartening decision after weeks of headlines about anti-gay violence around the world. Groups of gay men have been rounded up and detained in Nigeria and Bangladesh and there have been reports of widespread torture and intimidation of the LGBT community it Chechnya. At the same time, Indonesia's semi-autonomous Aceh province, which operates under fundamentalist Islamic law, ordered the public caning of two gay men.Although gay rights still have far to go in east Asia, several countries in the region are signatories to the UN's declaration on LGBT rights including Mongolia, Japan, South Korea, Nepal, Thailand and East Timor. In Japan, same-sex unions are recognized by some municipalities.es/jm (AP, AFP) 