Turkey has issued warrants to arrest more than 85 government officials, domestic media report. The latest roundup has targeted staff members from the Energy and Education ministries. (16.05.2017) Another 4,000 Turkish public officials have been sacked by President Erdogan's administration. It has also decreed the closing of television dating programs. (29.04.2017) A tragedy is slowly unfolding in Turkey. Since the failed coup attempt, more than 120 journalists have been arrested. "It's time we speak out for them," say the journalists from Al Jazeera, who were imprisoned in Egypt. (03.05.2017) Turkey's justice minister plans to demand the extradition of an exiled cleric in a meeting with his US counterpart on Monday, state media report. The government accuses Fethullah Gulen of plotting Turkey's 2016 coup. (06.05.2017) University professor Nuriye Gulmen and schoolteacher Semih Ozakca are on a hunger strike to protest their dismissal as part of the Turkish government s state of emergency. Gulmen spoke to DW on her 64th day without food. (12.05.2017) Turkey has&nbsp;formally arrested Oguz Guven, the editor of the online edition of opposition newspaper "Cumhuriyet," for allegedly spreading "terrorist propaganda," Turkish media have reported.Guven, who was detained on Friday, was arrested on Monday as legally responsible for the newspaper's tweets, in particular one on the death of prosecutor Mustafa Alper in a traffic accident last week, the state-run Anadolu news agency said.Anadolu said the tweet, now deleted, had used sensationalist wording and ran counter to news principles.Alper filed the first indictment against the network of US-based cleric Fethullah Gulen following last July's coup attempt, which triggered a huge crackdown by Ankara against alleged Gulen followers. Anadolu said Guven's arrest was part of an investigation into a campaign including on social media to discredit those fighting against Gulen's movement.Read: Turkey's journalists under siegeMass arrestsTwelve other journalists at Cumhuriyet - including the paper's current editor in chief Murat Sabuncu, veteran commentator Kadri Gursel and cartoonist Musa Kart - and other senior staff members have also been arrested and are awaiting their trials, accused of "aiding terrorist organizations."They could face prison sentences of up to 43 years if found guilty of supporting Gulen's network.Cumhuriyet's former editor-in-chief, Can Dundar, was last year handed a five-year-and-10-month jail term and has now fled Turkey for Germany. He was charged over a front-page story accusing the government of sending weapons to Syria.Turkey on Monday ordered the arrest of&nbsp;85 more officials, reportedly from the education and energy&nbsp;ministries, as it continues its draconian crackdown, with thousands of public officials sacked or arrested since the failed coup. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cu5Otj/jm (Reuters, AP, AFP)&nbsp;