"Good morning, passengers. This is your king speaking."At least, that's what many passengers would probably like to hear now that King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands has revealed he's been working as a regular co-pilot for his country's largest airline for more than two decades.The king told Dutch newspaper De Telegraaf on Wednesday that he has been flying twice a month as co-pilot for KLM Royal Dutch Airlines - but without disclosing his identity to passengers from the cockpit."I find flying simply fantastic," the monarch told the newspaper.King Willem-Alexander with Queen Maxima in Germany in 2016A semi-secret hobbyThough it was already known he liked to fly commercial planes, this was the first time King Willem-Alexander, who acceded to the throne in 2013, had revealed publically how often he has been serving as a "guest pilot" for the airline."It's important to me that I have a hobby to focus on," he said. "You have an airplane, passengers and crew. You are responsible for them. You can't take your problems into the air. You can completely switch yourself off and focus on something else. That provides the greatest relaxation for me."He also told the paper that he's starting conversion training to fly Boeing 737 passenger jets, enabling him to continue co-piloting KLM flights twice a month.However, he will continue to hide his true identity from passengers - not that many will notice, according to him. "Most people do not listen [to the pilot]," he quipped to the newspaper.The crowds, many of them wearing orange hats and other clothes, gathered in Dam Square outside the palace from early on Tuesday to see King Willem-Alexander take the Dutch throne.The king and queen looked relieved as they left the New Church where King Willem-Alexander received the homage of his people. They had said they were a bit nervous before the ceremony.The new king took his oath of office during a religious ceremony in the New Church in Amsterdam.King Willem-Alexander may have said he doesn't want much pomp, but he made an exception for the procession to the church where he was to take his oath.Beatrix - now Princess Beatrix - King Willem-Alexander and his wife Queen Maxima waved to the crowd from the balcony of the Royal Palace in Amsterdam following the inauguration on Tuesday.The new king, unlike his mother, pays less attention to protocol. He wants to be addressed as "Willem-Alexander" and not as Willem VI, which would be historically accurate. And he only wants to be called "Your Majesty" at official occasions.Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands, second from left, signs the Act of Abdication next to Prince Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands and Princess Maxima of the Netherlands during a ceremony at the Royal Palace in Amsterdam on April 30.For more than 30 years, Beatrix, the former queen, preferred a teased hairdo, which the Dutch jokingly say is made of cement. A humorous documentary on hairstyles was aired on Dutch television ahead of the official ceremonies.An estimated 25,000 well-wishers wearing the national color cheered outside the Royal Palace in Amsterdam as the ceremonies were broadcast live.April 30 is Queen's Day in the Netherlands and always an occasion for partying. Many people have taken the day off of work - and have been celebrating on the streets since Monday evening.Queen Beatrix, here flanked by Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and her son Prince Willem-Alexander, hosted a dinner at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam on Monday evening. Author: Rina Goldenberg, Michael Lawton