While in Brussels Thursday US President Donald Trump told European leaders that Germany was being unfair with its trade arrangements, German media reported on Thursday."The Germans are bad, very bad," Trump was quoted as saying by respected news weekly "Der Spiegel." "Look at the millions of cars they sell in the US. Terrible! We'll stop that," Trump said, according to sources inside who spoke with the magazine.Similar complaints against Germany's trade surplus at the Brussels meeting were reported by Bavarian daily "Sueddeutsche Zeitung."US President Donald Trump welcomes Montenegro to the military alliance by appearing to shove Prime Minister Dusko Markovic in order to secure a front row berth. Montenegro will formally join NATO next month, although it may already feel pressured to increase its military spending, which currently stands at 1.6 percent of GDP.The president was invited to unveil NATO's new 9/11 memorial. However, instead of using his speech to play up unity, Trump scolded allies for owing "massive amounts of money" to the US and NATO. Members have set a 2 percent of GDP defense spending "guideline," although the contributions are supposed to be voluntary.Trump's 10-minute tirade on defense spending appeared to be greeted with snickering and eye-rolling. An illustration of America's new standing in the world?Leaked comments obtained by German media reveal that Trump told European leaders that Germany was being unfair with its trade arrangements and decried its surplus. "The Germans are bad, very bad," German weekly Der Spiegel quoted Trump as saying. "Look at the millions of cars they sell in the US. Terrible! We'll stop that."Trump met with France's newly elected president, Emmanuel Macron, at the US ambassador's Brussels residence. As a life-long businessman, Trump's handshakes are seen as one of his key power moves. Palms dried and jaws clenched, Macron didn't appear prepared to grant him that victory as the leaders embarked on what's been coined "the world's longest handshake."British Prime Minister Theresa May is reported to have voiced her anger and dismay after US officials leaked details over the identity of the Manchester suicide bomber. The leak led British authorities to halt intelligence-sharing with the US for around 24 hours. The breech also comes just weeks after Trump himself divulged secret intelligence to senior Russian emissaries.If Trump had sought to assure allies of his commitment to NATO, neglecting to affirm Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty - which stipulates that members treat an attack against one ally as an attack against all - wouldn't have helped. Perhaps surprisingly, however, the president did mention the Russian threat on NATO's eastern border. Author: David Martin Trump reportedly made it clear that the reduction of the US trade deficit was a high priority for him, during a meeting with the President of the EU Council Donald Tusk and President of the EU Commission Jean-Claude Juncker. Other EU leaders joined the meeting later.Juncker reportedly defended the Germans, saying free trade was a good thing for everyone.$64 billion deficitIn 2016, Germany exported goods worth 253 billion euros ($270 billion) more than it imported.This has given rise to criticism by the Trump administration, IMF chief Christine Lagarde and French President Emmanuel Macron. Trump's top trade advisor, Peter Navarro accused Germany of exploiting a "grossly undervalued" euro to boost its exports. According to US figures government figures, Germany had a $64 billion trade surplus with the US in 2016. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2WJD0Trump has previously condemned German car-makers for importing cars into the US, threatening them with a 35 percent tariff."If you want to build cars in the world, then I wish you all the best. You can build cars for the United States, but for every car that comes to the USA, you will pay 35 percent tax," Trump told German tabloid "Bild" in January in remarks translated into German."I would tell BMW that if you are building a factory in Mexico and plan to sell cars to the USA, without a 35 percent tax, then you can forget that," Trump said.In March Trump signed executive orders to initiate a large-scale review of the causes of the American trade deficits with some of its largest trading partners - including China and Germany - and order stricter enforcement of US anti-dumping laws to prevent foreign manufacturers from undercutting US companies by selling goods at an unfair price.In April Germany's finance minister rejected US claims that Germany's trade surplus was a sign of unfair policies and called on the Trump administration to remain engaged in trade liberalization.In public comments after Thursday's meeting Tusk said the two sides agreed on a number of issues and reaffirmed counter-terrorism cooperation, but clashed on others.Later in the day Trump met with NATO leaders and repeated calls for members of the military alliance to pay more, saying that payments must make up for "the years lost." 