US popstar Ariana Grande will return Sunday to the city that was the target of an Islamist suicide attack last week.Her publicist confirmed Tuesday that Grande would hold a concert in memory of the victims of the Manchester bombing.- Manchester's music scene after the terror attack- MI5 launches internal review over Manchester bombingGrande will be joined by Justin Bieber, Coldplay, Katy Perry, Miley Cyrus, Pharrell Williams, Usher and Take That. The June 4 concert tickets will be offered free to fans who were at Grande's May 22 show targeted by Salman Abedi, a Manchester-born Islamist of Libyan descent.The "One Love Manchester" show will be held at Old Trafford cricket stadium and proceeds will go to an emergency fund set up by the city of Manchester and the British Red Cross.In a statement after the attack, Grande said "we won't let this divide us. We won't let hate win. Our response to this violence must be to come closer together, to help each other, to love more, to sing louder and to live more kindly and generously than we did before."Born in Florida in 1993, Ariana Grande's professional career already spans close to a decade - despite her young age. A child protege, Grande started appearing on Broadway when she was only 13 years old. She landed a major part in the Nickelodeon hit series "Victorious" soon after and was given her own spin-off show on the children's network. She later released her first album in 2013. The city with 2.6 million inhabitants is, next to Birmingham, the economic and cultural center of England's North West. Birmingham and Manchester have had a long rivalry over which of the two is Britain's second-biggest city. One thing Manchester definitely has is the biggest university campus in Great Britain. With some 100,000 students it has one the world's biggest student populations.The Alan Turing memorial commemorates the computer pioneer who taught at the university here from 1948. He rose to fame during World War II for helping to break the German Enigma code, which in turn greatly influenced the course of the war. In Manchester, he developed software for the first computer and conducted research into artificial intelligence.Manchester played a pivotal role in the Industrial Revolution. During the 19th century, it developed into the center of the British textile industry and became synonymous with unbridled capitalism. The Museum of Science and Industry, located in Liverpool Road Station, the world's oldest (1830) passenger train station, is devoted to the development of science, technology and industry. In the Castlefield district the remains of a Roman fort, Mamucium or Mancunium, which gave its name to Manchester, was found and reconstructed. In the 18th century, Castlefield was in the middle of a network of canals. On the Irweil river towpath, a 1.5 km walk leading to the Salford Quays was created. An eye-catcher is Beetham Tower, at 171 meters (554 ft.) the highest skyscraper outside London.Salford Quays is a former industrial area of Greater Manchester. It came to a standstill during the 1980s as industry declined. Setting an example for other European industrial areas, it became one of the first and largest urban regeneration projects in the United Kingdom following the closure of the dockyards in 1982. Modern housing, theater and event locations were created. The Lowry is a theater and music complex on Salford Quays. It consists of two theaters, a broad promenade, small cafes and concert stages. It is named after 20th century artist L.S. Lowry (1887-1987), known for his paintings of industrial scenes in North West England. The complex is also home to the Lowry Collection, a permanent exhibition of some 400 works from all periods of his career. Manchester is a multi-cultural city. Nowhere else in Europe will you find a greater number of people from ethnic minorities living side by side. Only New York is thought to have more. Manchester University established that 153 languages are spoken in the city. Many occasions are celebrated in Manchester - be it the Hindu Holi-Festival (pictured), the Chinese New Year or the Caribbean Carnival. City-dwellers need recreational areas. Manchester has an astonishing number of parks and gardens, 135 in total. The most important of these is Heaton Park in the north of the city. With its 250 hectares it is one of Europe's biggest public parks. Hyde Park in London is only 142 hectares big and the English Garden in Munich counts 417 hectares.Manchester has produced many famous bands, either home-grown or founded here, among them Oasis and Take That. Due to its vibrant music and club scene the city is also affectionately known as "Madchester." Music is everywhere. Festivals take place all summer long, this year numbering 30. The Parklife Festival with 70,000 visitors is one of the biggest.Two local football clubs, Manchester City and Manchester United, play in the Premier League. The National Football Museum is dedicated to all who have played a part in English football history, like David Beckam. In the "Hall of Fame" you can see the best national players while screens show the greatest moments in the national sport."You'll never walk alone" from the musical Carousel, tells people not to give up hope. Rumor has it that Manchester United fans sang the song at Old Trafford back in the 1950s, before great rivals Liverpool made it world famous. No other fan song better epitomizes solidarity and team spirit - something Manchester will have great need of now. Author: Anne Term che (sbc) shs/rt (AFP, Reuters, AP)