More than 100,000 worshippers attended three open-air services on Wednesday evening in central Berlin to mark the start of "Kirchentag," a multi-day protestant gathering. The most famous guest among the approximately 140,000 expected participants is former US President Barack Obama. When he talks about responsibility in front of the Brandenburg Gate on Thursday morning with pastor's daughter and now German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the message will be clear: Democracy needs God's trust, the gospel and politicians who can preach like Obama.It is a star-studded occasion: 2,500 events, 30,000 contributors and guests from all over the world will celebrate the 500th anniversary of the Reformation and the Protestant culture of debate.Those attending include Archbishop of Cape Town Thabo Makgoba, Grand Imam of Cairo's Al-Azhar Mosque Sheik Ahmed el-Tayyib, philanthropist Melinda Gates, German singer and songwriter Max Giesinger, German climate change researcher Ottmar Edenhofer, UN envoy Staffan de Mistura and Israeli author Amos Oz.Obama is making his first visit to Germany since leaving the presidencyA new movementThe German Protestant Church Assembly, or "Kirchentag," which has been held every two years since 1949, is an international and yet typically German event at the same time. It was founded by the East Prussian politician Reinold von Thadden, a member of the Confessing Church, which opposed the Nazi regime. Von Thadden was active in the resistance during the Nazi era and later acted as president of Kirchentag until 1964."Apart from the Confessing Church branch, the Protestant Church did not play a laudable role in National Socialism," says Protestant Church Assembly spokesperson Sirkka Jendis. "That is why dedicated lay people said, 'We need to create a forum to help ensure that something like that cannot happen again.'"From the "Protestant Week" in Hanover in 1949 emerged a Protestant lay movement that deliberately set itself apart from the official church and held regular congresses. "The broad scope and public relevance is unique," says Jendis. In view of the numerous panels on subjects including the flight of refugees, migration, war, tolerance and integration, she says it is clear to her that, "this Church Assembly may become political."Von Thadden launched 'Kirchentag' in post-war GermanyControversial guestsCurrent Protestant government leaders in Germany will participate in this year's congress: German Finance Minister Wolfgang Sch uble will discuss what is holding Europe together, the Social Democratic Party's (SPD) chancellor candidate Martin Schulz will talk about credibility and German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier will take part in the holiday church service in Wittenberg.German Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere's whirlwind participation will see him make seven Kirchentag appearances, including one together with Al-Azhar's Sheik Ahmed el-Tayyib. "I think it is great that he is coming to join the discussion," de Maiziere told the German weekly newspaper Die Zeit. "Controversial guests like him are a gain for the Church Assembly."But Protestant debate culture also has its limits. There was great opposition to the invitation of 43-year-old Anette Schultner, the national spokesperson of "Christians in the AfD," a Christian organization of the Alternative for Germany (AfD), a right-wing populist political party. She wants to explain to visitors why their faith and their membership in the AfD are compatible with each other.