At least 115 people were killed in ethnic and religiously fueled violence in southeastern town of Bangassou in the Central African Republic (CAR) over the weekend, the Red Cross said on Wednesday.The mainly Christian anti-Balaka militia attacked civilians and a UN office in the town bordering the Democratic Republic of Congo, before being pushed back by UN peacekeepers and airstrikes.More than 3,000 people were forced to flee into neighboring Congo, joining at least 15,000 other civilians displaced in fighting in more remote areas over the past week.Six UN peacekeepers have also been killed in the past week. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cKo5The violence comes after anti-Balaka and mostly Muslim Seleka militia fighting spread to the northern town of Bria on Monday and Tuesday, leaving at least five dead and nearly two dozen wounded. On Tuesday, the UN said it was trying to verify that some 100 people may have been killed in fighting between May 7-9 in the town of Alindao.Excluding the most recent violence, at least 121 people have been killed since March, according to the UN.CAR descended into brutal violence between Muslim and Christian militia in 2013 after mainly Muslim Seleka fighters ousted then-President Francois Bozize.Since 1999, the UN has been trying to pacify the eastern region of the DR Congo. The mission known as MONUSCO has nearly 20,000 soldiers and an annual budget of $1.4 billion (1.3 billion euros). Despite being the largest and most expensive mission of the United Nations, violence in the country continues.UNAMID is a joint mission of the African Union and the UN in Sudan's volatile Darfur region. Observers consider the mission a failure. "The UN Security Council should work harder at finding political solutions, rather than spending money for the military's long-term deployment," says security expert Thierry Vircoulon.Since the beginning of South Sudan's civil war in 2013, nearly 4 million people have been displaced according to the UN. Some of them are being sheltered in UN compounds. But when clashes between government forces and rebels broke out in the capital Juba in July 2016, the blue helmets failed to effectively intervene. Later, the Kenyan UNMISS commander was sacked by former UN chief Ban Ki-moon.UN peacekeepers in Mali are monitoring compliance with the peace agreement between the government and an alliance of Tuareg-led rebels. But Islamist terrorist groups such as AQIM continue to carry out attacks making MINUSMA one of the UN's most dangerous military intervention in the world. Germany has deployed more than 700 soldiers as well as helicopters. MINUSCA, the UN's mission in Central Africa Republic has not helped to improve the image of the United Nations in Africa. French troops have been accused of sexually abusing children by the Code Blue Campaign. Three years on, victims haven't got any help from the UN. Since 2014, 10,000 soldiers and 1,800 police officers have been deployed. Violence in the country has receded but tensions remain.The UN mission in the Westsahara known as MINURSO has been active since 1991. MINURSO is there to monitor the armistice between Morocco and the rebels of the "Frente Polisario" who are fighting for the independence of the Western Sahara. In 2016, Morocco which has occupied this territory since 1976, dismissed 84 MINURSO staff after being angered by a statement from the UN Secretary-General.The UN mission in Ivory Coast fulfilled its objectives on June 30, 2016 after 14 years. Since 2016, the troops have been gradually withdrawn. Former Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said this was a "turning point for the United Nations and the Ivory Coast." But only after the full withdrawal will it be clearly known whether or not the mission was successful on a long-term basis.The UN deployment in Liberia is - as in neighboring Ivory Coast - will soon be history. The soldiers are leaving by mid-2017. Since the end of the 14-year civil war, UNMIL has ensured stability in Liberia and helped build a functioning state. Liberia's government now wants to provide security for itself. The country is still struggling with the consequences of a devastating Ebola epidemic.The UNISFA soldiers are patrolling the disputed oil-rich region of Abyei. Sudan and South Sudan both claim to be rightful owners of this territory located between the two countries. More than 4,000 blue helmets from Ethiopia are deployed. Ethiopia is the world's second largest peace-keeping contributor. At the same time, the Ethiopian army is accused of human rights violations back home.UN peacekeepers in Somalia are fighting under the leadership of the African Union in a mission known as AMISOM. The soldiers are in the Horn of African country to battle the al-Shabaab Islamists and bring stability to the war-torn nation. Ethiopia, Burundi, Djibouti, Kenya and Uganda, Sierra Leone, Ghana and Nigeria have all contributed their troops for AMISOM. Author: Martina Schwikowski This triggered anti-balaka reprisal killings against Muslims.Thousands have been killed and tens of thousands more displaced.The UN peacekeeping mission, MINUSCA, has about 10,000 troops and 2,000 police in one of the world's poorest countries.The UN has warned that relative calm in the capital Bangui and other larger towns could be undermined by a spike in sectarian violence in rural areas.cw/rc (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) 