The projectile is believed to have traveled around 450 kilometers (280 miles). The US Pacific Command said the short-range Scud-class missile was tracked for six minutes until it landed in the Sea of Japan. According to South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff, the launch came from the North's coastal town of Wonsan, some 200 kilometers east of the capital Pyongyang, at around 5:39 am local time (2040 UTC on Sunday).File footage of a missile test in AprilWhile Japan strongly condemned the launch, warning that the missile posed a major risk to airplanes and ships in the area, a government spokesperson said it had received no reports of damage.Read more: North Korea's reality hits home in SouthJapanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe vowed to take "concrete action" with the US against North Korea. "We will never tolerate North Korea's continued provocations that ignore repeated warnings by the international community," he told reporters on Monday.With 700,000 active troops and another 4.5 million in the reserves, North Korea can call upon almost a quarter of its population to serve in the army at any given time. Every male in the country is required to undertake some form of military training and can be called to serve at any time. The North's bloated army is believed to outnumber its southern neighbor's by two-to-one.The 2016 Global Firepower Index revealed the North had, as part of a far-reaching arsenal, 70 submarines, 4,200 tanks, 458 fighter jets, 572 fixed-wing attack aircraft among others. The picture above from 2013 shows leader Kim Jong Un ordering strategic rocket forces to be on standby to strike US and South Korean targets at any time.Every year, hundreds of thousands of soldiers and citizens role through the streets of the capital Pyongyang to take part in the North's military parades. Preparations for the rallies often begin months in advance and are usually held on an important anniversary of the party or Kim Jong Un's family.Despite pressure from the international community, Pyongyang has made no secret of its nuclear ambitions. Alongside its ritual ballistic missile tests, North Korea has conducted nuclear tests on five occasions, two of which in 2016. The country claimed that the last warhead it tested could be attached to a rocket. Alongside the United States, Pyongyang views its neighbors South Korea and Japan as its two other main enemies. North Korea's has used US' military exercises in the regions as means of galvanizing its people, claiming that the exercises are dress rehearsals for impending invasion.In April, the US sent its Carl Vinson aircraft carrier towards the Korean Peninsula, saying it was taking prudent measures against the North. Pyongyang has vowed to "react to any mode of war." Intelligence officials estimate that North Korea could be less than two years away from striking the US. It seems increasingly les likely that US President Trump will allow that happen.Meanwhile, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters in televised remarks that "this ballistic missile launch by North Korea is highly problematic from the perspective of the safety of shipping and air traffic and is a clear violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions." Suga added that "Japan absolutely cannot tolerate North Korea's repeated provocative actions."Group of Seven (G7) leaders to adopt common language on North Korea following its latest series of ballistic missile tests. A declaration published by the G7 leaders said that the reclusive state posed an increasing threat of a "grave nature" to international peace and stability, while all states pledged to strengthen measures unless the North agreed to abandon its nuclear program."As agreed during the G7 summit, the North Korean problem is the international community's top priority," Abe said, following reports of North Korea's latest test-launch. "In order to deter North Korea, we will take concrete action with the United States."Seoul analyzing projectileSouth Korea's Yonhap news agency reported, without citing a source, that the projectile was believed to be a ballistic missile, although Seoul said it was still analyzing what exactly had been launched.If proven to be a ballistic missile, Monday's launch would be the third test carried out by North Korea in the past three weeks, as the reclusive state seeks to ramp up its weapons program and develop nuclear-tipped missiles capable of reaching the US mainland.South Korea's recently elected president, Moon Jae-in, called a meeting of the National Security Council immediately following the launch. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cCLBTrump briefed on North Korea test launchWhite House officials have confirmed that US President Donald Trump had been briefed on Pyongyang's latest test-launch. US Pacific Command, meanwhile, confirmed that it had tracked the projectile and assessed that it did not pose a threat to North America. Trump has sought tougher sanctions against the North, having warned last month that a "major, major conflict" with the isolated state was possible. However, both the US and North Korea have recently made comments suggesting that a meeting between the two sides could still be possible in the "right" circumstances.North-South rapprochement unlikelyMoon had signaled a more flexible approach to dealing with Kim Jong Un's regime in the North, having restarted stalled civilian aid and exchange programs. However, analysts don't believe that the new president will push for a major rapprochement, saying Pyongyang has gone too far with its nuclear ambitions.Read more: Will Moon's olive branch to North Korea bear fruit?Aside from the commonplace ballistic missile tests, North Korea conducted two nuclear tests last year, in January and September.While it is widely believed that the North is able to arm its shorter-range missile with nuclear warheads, the precise extent of its weapons program remains unknown.dm/jm (Reuters, AFP, AP)