There is no fast, easy way to get from Tehran to Damascus. But people and equipment need to make their way quickly into Syria for Iran's intervention there to meet Tehran's goals.Iran has been actively involved in the Syrian war for years, fighting on the side of President Bashar al-Assad's regime. Along with Russia, it's the Syrian president's most important protecting power.But with no good way to get war material to Syria by land or sea, Iran has been turning to the air, using a state airline and a private airline for transportation since 2015, according to the magazine "The National Interest."Tehran has extended the airlift with the help of both the state airline and a private one.Over six years of war has left many Syrian cities in ruins"It is almost inconceivable that these flights have carried exclusively civilian passengers and innocent cargo," wrote Paul Bucala from the Critical Threats Project at the American Enterprise Institute think-tank. "The increase in the number of Iran Air flights to Syria coincides with increased fighting and more aggressive deployment of Iranian forces. That cannot be happenstance."Servant of two mastersIf there is a second round of Syria talks - initiated by Iran and Russia - in the Kazakh capital of Astana, the representatives of Assad's government will be perfectly aware that they are the guests of their two most important backers in this war, to whom the Syrian regime owes its political survival. There's every indication that without the support of Russia and Iran, Assad would have stepped down - or been forced out - long ago.On Tuesday, the White House announced that the US would send a representative to the talks in Astana. The announcement came shortly after the US administration said President Donald Trump had held a "very good" call with President Vladimir Putin and they had discussed "Syria safe zones." Trump and Putin may meet on the sidelines of the Group of 20 summit in Hamburg in July, according to the Kremlin.&nbsp;It is likely that Iran and Russia will only be able to protect the Syrian president by working together. Either one on its own would not be strong enough. Assad basically has no choice other than to go along with the wishes of his two partners. If he didn't, they would make him well aware of who really holds power in Syria.Russia has relied on its air force when it comes to aiding Assad"Russia, Iran, and the Assad regime cannot recapture Salafi-jihadi safe havens and secure them over the long-term, given their severe manpower shortages and shortfalls in command-and-control," according to an analysis by the American Institute for the Study of War, published in March. Their military role is, therefore, limited; however, that does not alter the situation that "Assad is not sovereign.&nbsp;Iran and Russia have both inserted themselves deep into the framework of the state."Complex power relationshipsMilitary power relationships on the side of the Assad regime are correspondingly complex and difficult. According to estimates by the Institute for the Study of War (ISW), after six years of war, the Syrian army has shrunk from 100,000 to 30,000 to 40,000 operational soldiers. However, this group apparently also includes other forces, such as Iranian Republican Guards, as well as various special forces and Syrian volunteer organizations. Hezbollah&nbsp;and Shiite volunteer groups from Iraq and Afghanistan have also lent support to Assad.Many of the regular Syrian army units have been disbanded; in some places they have been replaced by paramilitary organizations, and some of these are connected to criminal networks. However, according to the ISW, this collapse of the regular structures combined with the spread of guerrilla warfare also helps ensure the survival of the regime.A complex network of relationships bind groups of fighters in SyriaThe ISW said these groups are participating partly for financial reasons while some have been recruited via religious training centers specially set up by Iran. It added that they are controlled by Iranian-led military operations centers in Latakia and Daraa.Syrians as spectators in AstanaThese militant groups are also important because Russia has refrained from deploying ground troops in Syria. In order to avoid losses of its own, Moscow has primarily deployed its air force. The ISW said that while airstrikes do help Iran, it also leaves Iran&nbsp;to provide basic support on the ground.For the Assad regime, the aid coming from his two protectors signifies both his political survival and his political weakness. During the first round of peace talks in Astana in January, Assad's delegates were more like observers than serious diplomatic negotiators. There's little indication that this will be any different second time round. Officially, Assad is still in power in Syria. De facto, others took over long ago.Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) suffered mass defections in the fall of 2011 to what would become the anti-Assad Free Syrian Army. The SAA is assisted by a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force.The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to terrorist groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished.Taking advantage of the chaos, "Islamic State" (IS) terrorists captured vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its militant and fundamentalist brand of Islam as well as for the mass murder and torture carried out under its black flag. It established a stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa (pictured above).IS is not the only terrorist group that holds sway in Syria. A number of Islamist militant groups, such as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front, also known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, are fighting in the conflict. Warring with each other and well as with Assad and moderate rebels, al-Nusra Front merged with several other entities under the umbrella name Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017.The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to President Assad. Russian ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fired from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes.After denouncing Assad and tacitly supporting moderate rebels, the US and other NATO countries declined to send ground troops to assist in the Syrian conflict. However, a US-led coalition of about 60 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014.In April the US launched a missile strike against a Syrian air-base in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on civilians. The attacked marked a sharp turn-around in US Syrian policy, with President Donald Trump long advocating against direct action against the Syrian regime.Syria's neighbors have been dragged into the conflict in the interests of their own border security. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported moderate rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies, however, over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, some of whom support Kurdish secessionist factions within Turkey.Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists in the north and west of Syria has become its own conflict. An ethnic group concentrated in Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, Kurds have long sought their own homeland or autonomy within their respective countries. Turkey considers armed Kurdish fighters within its borders to be terrorists. Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have also be assisting the US-led coalition.The involvement of Iran illustrates how much the Syrian conflict has become a proxy war for tensions between Iran and Russia on one side, and Turkey and the US on the other. Iran relies on Syria's friendship to maintain the balance of power in the region. Tehran has aided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training, and ground troops.Six years on, Syria is still divided between numerous belligerents. Many rounds of UN-brokered peace talks have failed to deliver any substantive peace deal. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher