Salman Abedi, the British suicide bomber who killed 22 people at a concert in the English city of Manchester, flew from Germany in the days leading up to the attack.Abedi was in the western city of D sseldorf, according to reports from the German news magazine Focus. German police say they believe he was probably in transit at the airport before flying to Manchester.- Leaked information in US affects Manchester bomb probe- Will Manchester change after the attack?- Do not create heroes, says media researcher The magazine said Abedi was also in Frankfurt in 2015. He is previously thought to have undergone paramilitary training in Syria.According to Focus, university dropout Abedi was not on any of the watch lists that would normally be used to track the movements of suspected Islamist militants. An expert from Germany's Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA) told the news magazine that it still needed to be clarified whether Abedi had made connections with Islamist militants in Germany or elsewhere. "The scene is closely interwoven internationally," he said.British authorities are exploring whether the bomber had links with other cells across Europe and North Africa. One line of investigation is looking at whether Abedi had links to a larger terror cell including Mohamed Abrini - known as the man in the hat - with connections to the Brussels and Paris attacks.However, it has been suggested that Abedi was actually radicalized closer to home.Born and bred in ManchesterSecurity services are scrambling to piece together details of what made Abedi into a killer. British police have said he was apparently supported by an Islamist network, partly based on the forethought and care with which the explosive device was prepared. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2dY2uSalman Abedi's parents, from the Libyan capital Tripoli, emigrated to the UK in 1993 as refugees escaping the now-fallen regime of late leader Moammar Gadhafi. The father, Ramadan, was subsequently alleged to have formed links with the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group, an al-Qaeda linked militant group.They initially lived in London but later moved to Manchester, and always retained their links with Libya. Salman was born in the city in 1994.Abedi was the second youngest of four siblings and it is believed they lived in several of the city's districts - Moss Side, Fallowfield and Whalley Range - an area that is home to Britain's largest Libyan population.The young Salman Abedi moved schools with unusual frequency, attending at least three separate high schools. He was described as a normal teenager, a fan of Manchester United who spent hours playing computer games on his Playstation 4 console. Path to radicalizationThe Abedi family worshipped at Manchester's Didsbury Mosque, which has strongly condemned the bombing and denied reports that he had worked there. Neighbors have described the Abedis as very traditional and "super religious."Neighbors have said the family traveled back and forth between Libya and Britain on a regular basis since his father returned there in 2008, when there was a reconciliation deal with Gadhafi. The rest of the family began to spend time there from 2011, when the dictator was ousted. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2dWHlA former schoolmate told the Manchester Evening News that since around that time, Abedi had changed."He was a outgoing fun guy but since he went to Libya in 2011 he came back a different guy," he told the newspaper. "He used to drink, smoke weed then all of a sudden he turned religious and I've not seen him since 2012."Police are investigating whether Abedi had links with Britain's most prolific "Islamic State" ("IS") recruiter Raphael Hostey, who grew up close to Abedi. It is thought the pair may have been part of a network in south Manchester, whose members effectively radicalized each other. The broadcaster Sky News said the group recruited from a simple market stall.Hostey was killed in a drone strike in Syria last year.In 2014, Abedi began a business management course at Salford University but dropped out after two years. He made at least two more moves within the city of Manchester, most recently being registered at the family home in Fallowfield. At a previous address, he was said to have displayed a black flag with Arabic writing.'Face of hate' in mosqueThe imam of Didsbury Mosque said the bomber had stopped attending in 2015, because he objected to comments that were made there against "IS." The imam said that, after one sermon against the militant group, Abedi had shown him a "face of hate." A Libyan official told the BBC that authorities were aware that Abedi had gone to Tripoli on April 18 and it was believed he had stayed for two or three weeks.- Opinion: The normality of terrorism- How closed communities provide a breeding ground for radical IslamSalman Abedi told both his parents he was on his way to make a pilgrimage to Mecca and had persuaded them to give him back his passport, which they had confiscated. It is suggested he may have been in D sseldorf en route from Turkey, with Turkish officials said to have shared information about him with the UK authorities.He called his mother - a nuclear scientist who graduated top of her class from Tripoli University - hours before the attack, apparently to say goodbye ahead of the never-to-happen journey to Saudi Arabia.Both of Abedi's brothers have now been arrested, as well as his father.The city with 2.6 million inhabitants is, next to Birmingham, the economic and cultural center of England's North West. Birmingham and Manchester have had a long rivalry over which of the two is Britain's second-biggest city. One thing Manchester definitely has is the biggest university campus in Great Britain. With some 100,000 students it has one the world's biggest student populations.The Alan Turing memorial commemorates the computer pioneer who taught at the university here from 1948. He rose to fame during World War II for helping to break the German Enigma code, which in turn greatly influenced the course of the war. In Manchester, he developed software for the first computer and conducted research into artificial intelligence.Manchester played a pivotal role in the Industrial Revolution. During the 19th century, it developed into the center of the British textile industry and became synonymous with unbridled capitalism. The Museum of Science and Industry, located in Liverpool Road Station, the world's oldest (1830) passenger train station, is devoted to the development of science, technology and industry. In the Castlefield district the remains of a Roman fort, Mamucium or Mancunium, which gave its name to Manchester, was found and reconstructed. In the 18th century, Castlefield was in the middle of a network of canals. On the Irweil river towpath, a 1.5 km walk leading to the Salford Quays was created. An eye-catcher is Beetham Tower, at 171 meters (554 ft.) the highest skyscraper outside London.Salford Quays is a former industrial area of Greater Manchester. It came to a standstill during the 1980s as industry declined. Setting an example for other European industrial areas, it became one of the first and largest urban regeneration projects in the United Kingdom following the closure of the dockyards in 1982. Modern housing, theater and event locations were created. The Lowry is a theater and music complex on Salford Quays. It consists of two theaters, a broad promenade, small cafes and concert stages. It is named after 20th century artist L.S. Lowry (1887-1987), known for his paintings of industrial scenes in North West England. The complex is also home to the Lowry Collection, a permanent exhibition of some 400 works from all periods of his career. Manchester is a multi-cultural city. Nowhere else in Europe will you find a greater number of people from ethnic minorities living side by side. Only New York is thought to have more. Manchester University established that 153 languages are spoken in the city. Many occasions are celebrated in Manchester - be it the Hindu Holi-Festival (pictured), the Chinese New Year or the Caribbean Carnival. City-dwellers need recreational areas. Manchester has an astonishing number of parks and gardens, 135 in total. The most important of these is Heaton Park in the north of the city. With its 250 hectares it is one of Europe's biggest public parks. Hyde Park in London is only 142 hectares big and the English Garden in Munich counts 417 hectares.Manchester has produced many famous bands, either home-grown or founded here, among them Oasis and Take That. Due to its vibrant music and club scene the city is also affectionately known as "Madchester." Music is everywhere. Festivals take place all summer long, this year numbering 30. The Parklife Festival with 70,000 visitors is one of the biggest.Two local football clubs, Manchester City and Manchester United, play in the Premier League. The National Football Museum is dedicated to all who have played a part in English football history, like David Beckam. In the "Hall of Fame" you can see the best national players while screens show the greatest moments in the national sport."You'll never walk alone" from the musical Carousel, tells people not to give up hope. Rumor has it that Manchester United fans sang the song at Old Trafford back in the 1950s, before great rivals Liverpool made it world famous. No other fan song better epitomizes solidarity and team spirit - something Manchester will have great need of now.