Venezuela's opposition movement on Sunday called on the military to enter dialogue with societal forces amid a wave of near-daily protests.After pledging loyalty to Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro last year, the armed forces have effectively enforced a violent policy to curb opposition demonstrations.According to opposition leaders, Maduro and his supporters met with Venezuela's defense minister to rally support behind the president's plan to form a constituent assembly tasked with rewriting the constitution."I am appealing to Defense Minister Vladimir Padrino Lopez to open the doors of a sincere debate in the armed forces," said Julio Borges, president of the opposition-controlled National Assembly."If [key supporters and]&nbsp;Maduro have the right to give a partisan argument to the military on the chaos Venezuela is going through, we ought to have that right as well.""I d been working as a journalist for a year when the protests started in 2014. Many independent media have come into existence in the last two years due to the government censorship, and that's how I became a reporter," Ivan Reyes told DW. He started capturing the new wave of riots on a daily basis at the end of March.The ruling by the Supreme Tribunal of Justice, which took away immunity from opposition parliamentarians, set off a surge of protests paralyzing the country. Although the protests were peaceful at first, government forces soon started throwing stones into the crowds. "Seriously, the police were given stones! This man, Lino Rivera, was hit by one on April 4," Reyes said.The marches take place all over Caracas every day, but they usually end on the city highways. This photo shows two officers of the national guard shooting tear gas grenades into the lines of protesters. "The projectiles should be shot above people s heads - so the international laws says," says Reyes. "But the armed forces shoot straight into the demonstrators."Juan Pablo Pernalete, 20, died after being hit by a projectile on April 26. The death of the student of Universidad Metropolitana triggered angry protests in the following days. "People were chanting 'Todos somos Juan! Todos somos Juan!'" ("We are all Juan") Reyes told DW. Congressmen Miguel Pizarro and Carlos Paparoni and the Governor of Miranda Henrique Capriles all came to pay tribute.Defense has become the key element for survival. "The people seem to be organized better every day," says Reyes. Against the wishes of the protest leaders, several groups have started using DIY weapons and even Molotov cocktails against the government forces, as seen in this photo. "It s a battle they can t win," says Reyes."Jes s was one of those injured in the demonstrations on May 4. He was gasping and stuttering after he got hit in the head. People in the crowd spotted him and carried him to one side where paramedics gave him first aid. The members of Primeros Auxilios UCV are the real heroes of history," Reyes said of the group of doctors who go to the protests every day to help the injured.On May 6, a women s protest against the regime was organized by Mesa de la Unidad Democr tica, Venezuela's opposition party. The march wasn t allowed to reach its destination, the Ministry of Justice, as they were halted by female officers of the national police. Former politician Mar a Corina Machado and the student president of Universidad Central de Venezuela were among the protesters.This image shot by Reyes went viral right after it was published by the author on May 8. The picture is one of the strongest snapshots from the Venezuelan protests, showing a young man walking down a road playing the Venezuelan anthem. "I don t see the protests ending soon," said Reyes. "Let s see which side gets tired first." Author: Ivan Reyes (Venezuela) The OPEC nation has witnessed violent protests since the Supreme Court attempted to strip congress of its legislative powers in late March.Venezuelans from all walks of life have taken to the streets to oppose what they see as increasingly-dictatorial maneuvers by Maduro, who was handpicked to lead the country in the wake of leftist firebrand leader Hugo Chavez's death.'Lower your weapon'On Sunday, a group of dozens of mothers marched to a command post of the national guard in the Venezuelan capital,&nbsp;Caracas, demanding the country's armed forces end their "repressive" actions against protesters.Mothers took turn reading an open letter to the armed forces to forsake their allegiance to Maduro's government and protect Venezuelans."Soldier, listen to your mother. They say that in the barracks, when the trumpet of the homeland calls, even the cries of mothers are silent. Today I am crying. Your homeland demands of you: no more, lower your weapon," the letter said.Since April 1, more than 38 people have been killed and hundreds more injured and detained during anti-government protests. Maduro has attempted to quell the demonstrations and rally support by describing them as a US-led conspiracy to unseat him.However, Maduro has failed to redress chronic shortages of food, medicine and other basic goods and rising criminal violence. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2cpEtls/cmk (EFE, AFP)