"We live in a world of disposable music," said Portugal's Salvador Sobral after being announced the winner of the Eurovision Song Contest at the end of the event on&nbsp;Saturday night in Kyiv. "This is a vote for people who actually mean something with their music. Music is not fireworks, music is feeling, so let's try to do this and bring music back."Then the singer took to the stage again, joined by his sister Luisa, who had composed the melancholic, fado-laced chanson "Amar Pelos Dois" ("For the Both of Us") about a hopeless and selfless love.Authenticity and sincerity are Sobral's trademarks, and for both juries and TV audiences, there was no escaping his charm.Notwithstanding the polished Eurovision show, where nothing is left to chance, he made every performance sound spontaneous and different. For health reasons, he had missed part of the rehearsal schedule: Sobral, who is awaiting a heart transplant, cannot travel for more than two weeks' time&nbsp;without his medical team.&nbsp;First for PortugalIn over six decades of the Eurovision Song Contest, this is Portugal's first win. Sobral's 758 points were a clear lead over the 615 of Bulgaria, followed in a considerable margin by Moldova (374 points), Belgium (363), Sweden (344) and - the clear favorite in the weeks before - Italy (334 points).Bulgaria's Kristian Kostov astonished all with his vocal maturityThe songs exhibited a range of styles. Bulgaria's entry was an absolutely poised 17-year-old Kristian Kostov with a very mature voice. Moldova's SunStroke Project delivered a fun dance number that generated smiles and dancing, while Belgium's Blanche sang a minimalist&nbsp;song laced with melancholy. Sweden's Robin Bengtsson showed a bit too much polish in his smooth dance number, and the ostensibly unconquerable Italy, which might have won any other year, faced too much stiff competition in 2017.In 2018, it's on to Portugal for the ESCAs in previous years, there was much regional voting, with countries frequently awarding their points to neighboring lands. Yet across the continent, many juries awarded their top points to Portugal. Sobral established a lead from the beginning, and was never challenged as the votes came in - first, country by country in the jury voting, and later, when the combined television votes were announced.Notable in the evening was the disturbance created by a streaker, apparently wearing only an Australian flag and momentarily seen on television disturbing the performance of Ukrainian singer Jamala&nbsp;while the vote tallies were awaited.Germany's Levina was very professional but did not stir emotionWith six points, Germany finished second-to-last, followed only by Spain. Levina's performance was solid, yet unemotional, and her song&nbsp;all-too-safe and so calculated to win, that the result was the opposite.Three of the six points were awarded by the Irish jury, the other three by television audiences.Fun and seriousnessAltogether,&nbsp;42 nations vied this time for top honors at the grand final of the world's biggest entertainment show, broadcast to an estimated television audience of 200 million.Hosted by three young men - Oleksandr Skichko, Timur Miroshnychenko and Volodymyr Ostapchuk -&nbsp;in the kind of English that can be understood across the continent, the show was bare-bones, despite ongoing controversy in Ukraine over the cost of the event.The effects in the musical productions were of typically high standard, however: a gigantic LED screen creating spellbinding visual spaces, showers of sparks falling from the heights and pyrotechnic columns surging from below.This year's contest, held in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, marks the first time that a host state has banned another country's entrant. Ukrainian security services denied entry to 27-year-old, wheelchair-bound Yulia Samoylova of Russia after reports surfaced that she toured Crimea after Russia annexed it in 2014. In response, Russia's state-owned broadcaster Channel One will not air the contest.Russia and Ukraine had their share of Eurovision drama in 2016 when Ukrainian entrant Jamala beat Russia's Sergey Lazarev. The song "1944" about Stalin s deportation of Crimean Tatars during the World War Two was initially deemed controversial due to the contest's ban on explicit political messages. Jamala was victorious, however, with 534 points. Russia finished third, with Australia second.While the slogan of the 2017 Eurovision is "Celebrate Diversity," three years ago in Copenhagen, the victory of Austrian drag queen Conchita Wurst (born Tom Neuwirth) saw a backlash from numerous countries. Radical groups in Russia, Azerbaijan and Belarus all campaigned - without success - to keep the then 25-year-old from entering. In 1969, Austria took a political stance against Spain and withdrew from Eurovision. The country refused to take part in Madrid to show its opposition to the Franco regime. Spanish General Francisco Franco ruled over Spain as a military dictator for 39 years from 1936 until his death in 1975. An estimated 200,000 to 400,000 people died as a result of his human rights abuses.In 2001, Estonia became the first former-Soviet republic to win Eurovision. "We freed ourselves from the Soviet empire through song," Estonian Prime Minister Mart Laar said, following the victory in Copenhagen. "Now we will sing our way into Europe," he added, referring to ongoing talks over the country's accession into the European Union. Estonia's independence was restored in 1991.Georgia was disqualified from the Moscow 2009 contest over their disco-funk entry, "We Don't Wanna Put In" after the Geneva-based European Broadcasting Union (EBU) deemed the lyrics too political. As well as an apparent play on Russian President Vladimir Putin's name, Georgian female trio 3G, along with male vocalist Stephane sang of a "negative move" that was "killing the groove."A long-running debate in Eurovision is the apparent bloc voting by neighboring countries. Late UK presenter Terry Wogan famously stepped down from commentating Eurovision in 2008, saying it was "no longer a music contest." Some of the main perpetrators are Cyprus and Greece, Scandinavia, the Balkan states and the former Soviet bloc. Last year's change in voting aims to minimize geographical bias.Language has long been a fundamental flaw at the heart of Belgium's ongoing existential Eurovision crisis. For years, in a bid to keep the peace at home, Belgium has alternated between sending an entry to sing either in Flemish or French. Back in 2003, however, the Belgians avoided any linguistic woes with their entry "Sanomi," which was sung by the band Urban Trad in a fictional language. In 2015, allegations arose that Armenia used its entry to call for recognition of the Armenian genocide during the last days of the Ottoman Empire. The massacre of some 1.5 million Armenians remains unrecognized by Turkey and Azerbaijan. A year later, Armenian entrant Iveta Mukuchyan was reprimanded for holding a Nagorno-Karabakh flag. The de-facto independent republic is claimed by Azerbaijan.Citing "dissatisfaction with the rules," Turkey refused to participate in the 2013 contest. Following Conchita Wurst's victory, a Turkish MP from President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's AKP reported the country would no longer take part in the Eurovision Song Contest. Turkey had participated in the contest 34 times since its first appearance in 1975 and even won in 2004. Author: Kate Brady In&nbsp;Kyiv itself, security was clearly paramount. At the press conference a day before the final, the Ukraine band's frontman thanked "the men who are fighting for our security in the east," reminding visitors that the country is at war. "Freedom is Our Religion" is the message of a huge banner on Maidan Square near the Eurovision fan zone, while a billboard on Independence Square listed nine Ukrainian soldiers killed this month.In the biggest ESC scandal in memory, Russia boycotted the contest after a controversial ban on its singer, Yulia Samoylova, and both Russia and Ukraine now face EBU sanctions for politicizing the event.But across the broad Dnipro River in Kyiv's exhibition center seating 9,000, there was only fun, celebration and unity. The world's biggest entertainment show continues its unique blend of quirkiness and glamour, spectacle and sometimes even high musicality with a cross-generational appeal.