A new report has found some 750 right-wing extremists in Germany own guns legally. Meanwhile, refugee-related attacks with weapons more than doubled from the previous year. (06.05.2017) Attacks on refugees and their homes remained high in 2016, Germany's Federal Criminal Police report. Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere intends to increase deportations of people whose asylum requests are rejected. (03.02.2017) German police have recorded more than 450 asylum-related assaults on politicians and aid workers in 2016. The numbers of arson attacks on shelters in Germany will likely fall just short of the record set in 2015. (13.11.2016) Following an influx of refugees from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan in 2015, the number of xenophobic attacks in Germany rose drastically. Although asylum-seeker arrivals have significantly fallen since then, the rate of attacks remained high.The latest government data reported on Tuesday, however, shows that the frequency of attacks is now starting to drop.Police logged 93 attacks on refugee centers in the first three months of this year, the German newspaper "Neue Osnabr cker Zeitung" reported on Tuesday, citing an interior ministry&nbsp;response to a query from the Left Party.The figure is now on par with the first quarter of 2015, before the arrival of asylum-seekers spiked in late summer. From January to March of that year, 106 attacks on shelters were recorded.In 2015 alone, over 1,000 attacks took place while just under a thousand attacks on refugees occurred in 2016, the newspaper reported.Attacks on the refugee centers include arson, explosives attacks and bodily harm. So far this year, police recorded 318 assaults on refugees. A total of 47 people were injured in the assaults, including two children, according to the report.Left cautions against complacencyThe motives behind the attacks are still overwhelmingly inspired by right-wing extremism. Out of the 93 attacks on refugee shelters that occurred in the first quarter of this year, 86 of them had an extremist right-wing background, the ministry said.Although the number of attacks is on the decline, Left Party MP Ulla Jelpke said there is no reason to become complacent."Violence and everyday terror against refugees appears as though it is becoming normalized in Germany," she told the newspaper."We should not allow ourselves to get accustomed to the fact that refugees in the country are victims of neo-Nazi or racist attacks day in and day out."rs/rt (dpa, epd, KNA) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/2SwE9