After Germany's upset of the United States on Friday night, coach Marco Sturm told reporters that 24 hours later, Sweden would pose an even greater challenge -&nbsp;and he was right. The Swedes are every bit as skilled as the Americans, but with an average age of 26 as opposed to 23, they are also more experienced.What coach Sturm also knew was that for his team to have a chance against the Tre Kronor, made up this year almost exclusively of NHL stars, he would need his team to execute his game plan to a tee, and goaltender Thomas Greiss would need to have another almost perfect game. &nbsp;Unfortunately for Sturm and his men, it just didn't all come together the way it had on Friday.It was another busy night for Greiss, particularly in the first period, when he stopped all but one of the 22 shots the Swedes fired&nbsp;at him. The only one that did get through was a wrist shot from the point by Oliver Ekman-Larsson that deflected off a German defender and into the net at 6:56. It took almost 10 minutes for Germany to strike back, but equalize they did - on a wrist shot through traffic from Patrick Hager that slipped between Swedish goalie Viktor Fasth s body and his glove. Germany then held on to go into the dressing room tied at one.Germany battled hard against the Swedes, keeping it close until the thirdThe Germans got off to a catastrophic start to the second frame, though. After defenseman Moritz M ller took a slashing penalty just seven seconds in, Sweden scored on the powerplay to take the lead with a goal from Victor Rask at the period's 23-second mark. But this time Germany would equalize much more quickly - just over five minutes later, with Philip Gogulla&nbsp;finishing&nbsp;a nice move on another powerplay.Two late-period goalsHowever, just when you started to think the two teams might go into the rooms tied, Linus Omark managed to poke the puck over the line after Greiss had already made&nbsp; a couple of saves with just under five minutes to go. Then, with less than three seconds to go, Jonas Brodin struck to put Germany behind the eight ball going into the third.A goal against in the last minute of a period is always hard to take, but the Germans fought bravely for the first half of the third. However,&nbsp;after Gabriel Landeskog scored at 9:50 of the period, the roof caved in, with William Nylander scoring a pair less than two minutes apart to make it 7-2. Sturm elected to give goalie Greiss some well-deserved rest, putting in the backup, Danny Aus den Birken.To be fair, almost nobody had given the Germans much of a chance against the Swedes, who are seen as one of the favorites to win a medal maybe even gold. However, they will be disappointed at the scoreline, after they had stayed with Sweden for much of the contest. Now they have a day to rest and nurse their bruises, as coach Sturm and his staff focus on what they can do to trouble the mighty Russians in their third Group A game on Monday. &nbsp;